DARK WIND FANTASY

CREATING A CHARACTER

STEP ONE  

DETERMINING THE ATTRIBUTES
 
ATTRIBUTES                                                   ATTR.
     A character's attributes are it's basic characteristics,  how strong or fast or how intelligent, etc. your character is.  The character's attributes will be used to determine the degree of ability that it has when attempting to perform a specific task, fighting, spell casting or any other feat that the character might attempt.

SCORES           SCORE = ROLL +  RACIAL MODIFIER                       
      To determine your characters attributes, roll 1d100 for each of the eight attributes and write the numbers on a scrap paper.   Any role lower than 40 automatically becomes a 40.  If  you  role a 95 or higher, ( open ended up), roll again and add the second roll to the first.  You may only do  this  once for each score.  
     After you have rolled eight scores, assign one score to each attribute (still on the scrape paper) and then add the Racial Attribute Bonus for the characters race. 
    (Racial attribute bonus is described in full detail under Step three, Character Race.) 
     After you have done this you can write them on your character sheet in the box's under the heading of SCORE under ATTRIBUTES.


THE ATTRIBUTES

STRENGTH                      
      Strength is a measure of your characters physical 
strength, and  will help in determining the amount of damage
 that the character can do  with a physical attack.  Strength 
will also determine the speed at which a character can attack
as well as the amount of weight it  can carry.

HEALTH                                   
     Health measures your characters physical endurance
 and will determine the amount of damage that the character 
can sustain from a physical attack, as well as it's ability to 
resist an internal attack, such as poison.

SPEED                                                     
     Speed is a measure of your characters physical speed and dexterity, and influences your characters attack accuracy, 
the speed at which it can attack, as well as it's ability to avoid traps and dodge both physical and magical attacks.  Speed 
also is used in determining the training base score of a large number of trainings.
                 
PERCEPTION                           
     Perception is the measure of your characters  awareness of it's surroundings.  Perception influences your characters attack accuracy, the ability to find  hidden items,  and like speed, is used in the determination of the training base score of a large number of trainings.


INTELLIGENCE                 
   Intelligence is the measure of your character's ability to learn and comprehend knowledge, and influences  your characters ability to learn certain types of magic 
and a number of other trainings and disciplines. 


BEARING                        
   Bearing is the measure of a character's  personal strength of character, This influences a characters  ability to socially interact, it's resistance to mind control and  it's ability to cast spells.

EVOCATION                     
      Evocation is a measure of the amount of energy your character can evoke to cast spells and also determines how many Personal Spells  that a character   will have to start with. 


LUCK                              
      Luck can play an important role in determining success or failure if a character attempts to perform an action that it has 
not specifically been trained to do, or that may be to difficult for the character at it's present level.  
     
STEP TWO

DETERMINING THE STATISTICS               

STATISTICS                                                    STATS
     The Statistics are a group of numbers that are derived from the characters attribute base numbers.  These numbers  are then used to determine the results of any actions that your character may take.  After choosing your character's race and adding the appropriate racial attribute bonuses, calculate your character's statistics.   

Dodge Rank
The Dodge Rank is the characters ability to dodge physical and some magical attacks. 

MAXIMUM DODGE RANK
MDGR=Spd+Per+Lck/3
 This is the maximum DGR your character can acheive until it raises any of the three statistics used to determine DGR.

WORKING DODGE RANK 
WDGR= MDGR/4 
 This is the Score that is added to your dodge role and can be raised by either training or when your character raises any
 of the three statistics used to determine MDGR.  This number can not exceed the MAXIMUM DG  

Defence Rank s
The defense rank is the characters ability to Physicly defend against  physical attacks as well as some magical attacks. Other attacks, such as mental attacks can not be defended against using a character's DFR..  

MAXIMUM DEFENSE RANK   
MDFR =  SPD  + PER + STR / 3
 This is the maximum DFR your character can acheive until it raises any of the three statistics used to determine DFR.
    
WORKING DEFENSE RANK 
WDFR= MDFR/4 
 This is the working  DFR and can be raised by either training or when your character raises any of the three statistics used to determine DFR.  This number can not exceed the MAXIMUM DFR  

OFFENSE RANK                      
    The offense rank represents your characters untrained 
ability to score a hit when physically attacking an opponent with a melleweapon or an unarmed combat maneuver.   The OFR is used as the base stat for melle and hand-to-hand combat trainings.

MAXIMUM OFR   
OFR  = STR + SPD + PER / 3 
    This is the the best a character can get with any givin meelle weapon or hand-to-hand combat skill until it raises any of the three statistics used to determine OFR.  
    
WORKING OFR
   This represents your charcaters begining untrained skill with any given melle weapon or hand-to-hand combat skill. This number can not exceed the MAXIMUM OFR  

Marksmanship                       
The Marksmanship represents your characters ability to score a hit when physically attacking an opponent with a aimed,  ranged weapon without an arching projectile path.
(i.e. Gun, Lazer rifles. Pistol, Magic Wand, Crossbow, exc.)

Maximum Marksmanship
MMS  = SPD + PER +BER/3 
   This is the the best a character can get with any givin non-arching ranged weapon combat skill until it raises any of
 the three statistics used to determine Marksmanship.
    
WORKING Marksmanship  
WMM=MMS/4
   This represents your charcaters begining untrained skill with any given non-arching ranged weapon combat skill. 
This number can not exceed the MAXIMUM Marksmanship  

Bowsmanship		 
      The Marksmanship represents your characters ability to score a hit when physically attacking an opponent with a
 ranged,  drawn or swung weapon with an arching projectile
 path
.(i.e. Bow, Sling,Catapolt, Cannons, exc.)
 
Maximum Bowmanship
BMS=Spd+Per+Int/3
  This is the the best a character can get with any givin 
arching ranged weapon combat skill until it raises any of
 the three statistics used to determine Bowmanship.
    
WORKING Bowmanship 
WBMS=MBMS/4
   This represents your charcaters begining untrained skill with any given non-arching ranged weapon combat skill. 
This number can not exceed the Max. Bowmanship  

 
ATTACK POINTS                        AP = STR + SPD / 2
   Attack points reflect the character's prowess and determines the number of times it  can physically attack an opponent within one round. When using combat rounds, each physical action will cost  a fixed amount of APs.  When a character reaches zero AP,  it can no longer physically act in this round other than to defend against attacks.  The character gains AP every round equal to it's AP score.  AP's can be stored from one round to the next during a combat situation.  This enables a character to preform actions that the character does not normally have enough AP to execute in one round.  

MANEUVERING POINTS    MP = AP X 3 X RACE MOD.
    Maneuvering points represents the speed a character can travel when physically moving from one point to another and the number of spaces that the character can move in 1 day.

DAMAGE RESISTANCE                          DR = ARMOR
    The amount of protection a character has from physical damage is the characters DR.  Armor and other protective devices, as well as innate physical attributes, are all forms of DR.  When a character takes physical damage the deduct their DR from the total damage taken. Characters start with zero DR unless they gain a bonus from their race.  Some armor may detract from a character's DFR, due to it's bulk and weight. 




CASTING RANK                        
Casting Rank represents your characters ability to summon and weild magical energies in order to cast personal spells. The Character may train in casting to raise its Base Casting Rank for each spell.

Base Casting Rank
BCR=Bearing/4
 This is a characters natural, untrained ability to cast any given personal spell.

Maximum Casting Rank
MCR=Bearing 
   This is the the best a character can get at casting any given personal spell  untill it raises it s bearing. A charcter s Casting Rank cannot exceed there Maximum Casting Rank in any given personal spell due to trainings.
    
 
MAGIC LEVEL                                ML =  EVO            
     Personal spells cost magic Level's to use, whether they are cast in combat or not. If the character lack's the MLs required to cast a spell then it can not cast that spell.  The character's  MLs  equal  to its  evocation score each day, and they CAN NOT be saved or stored from one day to use the next day.  

CASTING POINTS                             CP = Bearing/4
    Casting Points are used in the same manner as Attack Points, however, instead of being used to perform  physical actions they are spent to cast spells.  A character gains Casting Points each round equal to the character's Casting Point Score  and can be stored from one round to the next to cast a spell that may require more CPs than the character has.  

WILL POWER                                     WP = BER 
     Will power is your character's ability to to resist mental attacks.  Most races do not have any natural WP enhancements,


PHYSIQUE ATTRIBUTE STATISTICS
    The physique attributes are those that are directly affected by the character's race.  When determining any of the physique attributes use the information found in the CHARACTER RACES section of this manual.
    If the race that you have selected receives a racial bonus to strength at any level of the character's development, all of the physique attributes under the weight categories will change with each new attribute adjustment.
     If the race that you have selected receives a racial sensory bonus at any level please make sure that you note the change on your character legend.  

WEIGHT               WGT. =  STR+HLT * Racial Weight Mod.
    The weight of a character determines how much the character can lift, carry or drag as well as the amount of damage the character can inflict by virtue of it's weight. 
  

LIFT                                             LIFT = wgt x .625
    Lift determines how much weight a character can lift and hold using two hands.  Calculate the character's lift and write the number in the box next to lift on your character legend.  

CARRY                                      CARRY  = wgt x .33
     A character can carry 1/3 of it's weight without being encumbered. This is the normal and recommended weight for those who are traveling seeking adventure. Calculate   the amount of weight that your character can carry and write the number in the box next to carry on your character legend.  




DRAG                                          DRAG = wgt x .67
     A character can drag more weight than it can carry, but the amount of AP available to the character each round will be reduced.  A character dragging 2/3 its weight has its A reduced by 1/2.  Calculate the amount of weight that your character can drag and write the number in the box next to drag on your character legend.  

MAXIMUM WEIGHT                                  MAX = wgt x 1.875
     A character carrying  or dragging over 2/3  its weight has its AP reduced by 3/4.  A character cannot move more than its weight times 1.875.  Calculate the maximum amount of weight that your character can handle,  and write the number in the box next to max on your character legend.  

WEIGHT DAMAGE LEVEL     WDL= wgt/100
    A characters WDL is a measure of the amount of damage that a character can do with its body weight. The WDL is used to determine the effects of a characters weight in any given situation..  A characters WDL equals its Strength Rank + its Health Rank.  Write this number in the box next to WDL on your character legend.
 
WEIGHT RANK  	  WR = wgt/1000
     A characters WR is used as Attack Success Score Modifier for certain types of attacks.  This will represent the characters stability, and resistance to being knocked down, tackled, etc. due to its weight. To find the WR multiply the characters weight times .012, then write the number in the box next to WR on your character legend.

ONE HAND SWING    ONE HAND SWING = Lift /4 
    One hand swing is the amount of weight that a character 
can effectively swing using only one hand.

TWO HAND SWING   TWO HAND SWING =lift /4
    Two hand swing is the amount of weight that a character can effectively swing using both hands.













THE SENSES

    Each race can use its senses differently.  For example; a Golden Tabbyon uses all three of the normal senses, sight, hearing, and smell, almost equally.  While an Ice Dracken's sense of smell is 50 per cent of it's senses, and does not rely as heavily on sight or smell as the Golden Tabbyon.  When a character is placed in specific conditions such as darkness, the Golden Tabbyon, who relies more heavily on sight  34%), will innately be at more of a disadvantage in the darkness than will the Ice Dracken, who only relies 20% on vision. 

VISION
    Vision is the ability of a race to use their eyes during daylight hours. The races ability to perform normally while in darkness, fog, or other instances of poor visibility, is reduced by the percentage that is assigned to the races sense of vision.    
HEARING
     Some of the races hear much better than they can see or smell.  The races ability to perform normally in extremely loud or noisy conditions as well as those who are in an area 
affected by a field of silence spell, is diminished by the 
percent that is assigned to the races sense of  hearing.  

SMELL
    Some of the races rely heavily on their sense of smell to guide them.  The races ability to perform normally in areas where there is an overwhelming odor or those who may be in an area affected by a null sent spell, is diminished by the percent that is assigned to the races sense of  smell.  

AREA SENSE                          
    Those races possessing a large percent of area sense, have the same ability as one who trains in blind fighting.  They do not rely heavily on any of the three normal senses, but almost entirely on their perception.

SONAR
    Those races who rely on or have sonar, find  their way around by bouncing sound waves off of objects.  These races can have a great advantage in dark enclosed areas.

NIGHT VISION
     These races possess the ability to see in the darkness as well as they do in the daylight, by amplifying the ambient light that is ever present on the surface.  However, night vision does not allow the race to see clearly in fog, smoke, or other visually obscured situations.

HEAT SENSOR
     These races can not only identify objects and living things by their heat signature, but can also navigate quite well by identifying the heat variance in the earth, sky, and rocks.
    















THE TITLE SYSTEM	

      The Title System is used in the Grand Game to determine the station of a character, and are a measure of character level  and experience points as well as the fame that a character has gained through adventuring.  There are three titles that a character can obtain, Guardian, Champion and Grand Guardian.  The title system is incorporated into the mechanics of the game to determine a number of racial advancement aspects, attribute development, innate abilities, as well as many others.  

CHARACTER LEVEL                                            LVL 
     Character levels are used to measure a character's experience and power within a title.   A 3rd level Guardian is more powerful and has more experience than a 1st level Guardian.  A character's level is raised by gaining a specified number of experience points for each level that the character raises.  As a character gains levels it becomes more powerful and can preform in its chosen trainings  with greater efficiently.
 
FAME
        In the Grand Game a character's fame is
measured in fame points. The more fame points a character has the better it's odds of getting a beneficial reaction from the common races, such as free room and board, or other favors and information. Each Title has an amount of fame points which a character automatically gains for having that title. They also gain fame due to their character level . When a character changes title it losses the fame bonus for the old title and get's the fame bonus from the new one.   The demise of a character can also add to its fame, or it can take fame points from the character. ( See: Character Death )

EXPERIENCE POINTS                                         EXP
     Experience points are used to determine a characters level and title, to train characters and in the acquisition of new personal spells. 
    A character can gain or loose experience points.   Every time a character successfully completes a Game Goal they gain experience points, or lose experience points by dying, 
(see: Character Death).   The chart on the following page tells the player what the characters level, and title is by the number of EXP. that the character has gained.  Characters start the game with 0 EXP and the title of Guardian.
   For every 12 experience points a character earns it raises one level.  A character can elect to become a Champion at level 12 and a Grand Guardian at 24th level.  However,  the player 
must remain at the current level until it has been trained at least 3 levels at the same profession or to the players desired level before advancing to the next level.
     To advance to Champion the character not onlly has to have 144 experience points but also have trained in the same profession for at least 36 experience points.

GUARDIAN TITLE                          
     Guardian is the lowest title that a character can have. Guardians are relatively common, so single characters outside their own territories, are relatively un-known by the commoners, although some exceptionally powerful Guardians may 
sometimes become famous in a small region.  
    Most of the time the exploits of Guardians are  overlooked by the Speakers of Myth or Legion  of the Black Pearl, unless a feat of uncommon valor or notoriety was executed that would bring an individual or party to their attention.   
    Guardians begin with a 15 point fame bonus, and 1 fame point is gained each time a character gains a level.
       
CHAMPION TITLE
         Champions are at the mid point in the title system.  At this point they are approaching Grand Guardianship so they are anxious for adventure. The exploits of the further Grand Guardians are a favorite topic of the commoners, and they are also closely watched by the Speakers of Myth and the Cult of the Black Pearl.  Many Champions have fallen to the blade of an assassin, as they approach the Grand Guardian level. At this point   single characters may become targeted for assassination. 
     Champion's get a 30 point fame bonus upon reaching Champion and receive 2 fame points each level they raise in the Champion title.

GRAND GUARDIAN TITLE
     Grand Guardian is the highest title attainable in game society. Those characters that achieve this title are the most powerful and the most famous.  Only from the ranks of the Grand Guardians do the Speakers of Myth and the The Legion of The Black Pearl choose their members. Grand Guardians are the ruling party in Guardian society, only be equaled by another Grand Guardian.  As future members of the ruling elite, Grand Guardians and continually harassed and watched by the members of the The Speakers or the Cult.  Upon reaching  the title of Grand Guardian,  characters get a fame bonus of 60 and 3 fame points each level they raise under this title.




PROFESSIONAL
   After a character has reached 36th level it can elect to become a professiona.  Examples are Sages, Slavers, Bounty Hunters, Assassins, etc.  The character is then locked into this profession and gains infinate levels as its chosen profession.

SPEAKERS OF MYTH
   The Speakers of Myth are the leaders of the Pomparian races.  They are the stratigists and moovers and are players supreme.
They carry Mythwood Staffs and can zap a Pomparian  player from one place to another by mearly saying "You are required."
 When a player reaches 36th level or has 432 experience points a Pomparian character may choose to become a Speaker.
  
LEGION OF THE BLACK PEARL
   Legion of the Black Pearl are the leaders of the Pharayan races, the counterpart of the Speakers.  They have the same power over the Pharayan races as the Speakers do over the Pomparians.  They carry with them a black pearl that amplifies their power.
They are often refered to as Legionnaire.   
   When a player reaches 36th level or has 432 experience points a Pharayan character may choose to become a Legionnaire.
 












STEP THREE 

CHOOSING A CHARACTER RACE
            
   The next step is to choose a race for your character. Read the race description to get an idea of which race is best suited to your playing style.  After choosing your characters race, add the appropriate racial attribute bonuses to the attributes that you have assigned to your character on your scrap paper and write them in the attribute section of your character legend sheet.
              
RACIAL ATTRIBUTE BONUS
     The races of Mythos where designed with specific functions in mind. Each races gets a bonus to the attributes that will best aid it in the function it was designed for. The Racial Attribute Bonuses are added to the corresponding attribute score as mentioned in Scores.

TITLE ATTRIBUTE BONUS
     Each race gains a number of points to a set of attributes every time they gain a character level. The number of points a character gains is determined by the character's  title.  For example: When a Shiraka Champion gains a level, going from 1st to second, the character would add 15 points to it's  SPD score, 10 to  STR score, and 5 to an attribute score of the players choice since the character gets 5 free points.The points  are added to the characters attribute score,  thus changing the rank of the attribute as well. Any 
statistics, and / or training's based off of the attribute must be re-figured as well.  The character must reach 100 EXP to receive the first of these bonuses.
             
Innate Powers/Weapons/Training
	Each race gets innate abilities that are gained 
upon attaining a title. These abilities are not lost when a character advances to a new title. Innate spells do not
 require the character to role a cast success role (Explained latter) to cast them but the do cost CP. 


APTITUDE TRAINING LISTS
     The aptitude training list reflects a races natural aptitudes toward certain trainings (cats climbing, wolves tracking, etc.).  The trainings found on this list will cost a character of the race fewer EXP points to train in than a training not found on this list.  ( See: Training a character)

RACIAL MODIFIERS
      The racial modifiers define the races physical size, weight, bulk, senses and general physique, and are used in the determination of specific statistics, such as weight, maneuvering points, etc. 
    
INNATE RACIAL ABILITIES
    Each race has innate abilities that are unique to the race.  Some races have innate weapons such as claws, or possesses innate trainings, such as casting, and may even have innate spells like the ice touch of the ice Dracken.   As each race gains a new title it also gains in its innate abilities.  These new abilities do not replace the  abilities of the former title but are added to them. 


CHARACTER TYPES
      In Mythos a category system is used to described the methods that a character might use while adventuring.  Each character type uses a different method of adventuring,  for example, some types of adventurers rely heavily on combat trainings while others might prefer to use runes or personal spells.  

Each character type has attribute and skill bonuses that the character learns for each level that the character gains in
 any given character type. A character can change it s Character type ata any point but any experaince that a character has learned in that Character Type will be lost if it changes types before acheiving a level. However a character must train at least 3 levels as one character type to move up
 to the next title.
 

RUNE LORD
    This Character type trains predominantly in rune crafts. 
They often wander from place to place in search of new and more powerful runes.   This type of character can become 
very powerful after acquiring a large number of runes. 

Attribute Bonus
Ber 5	Int 5	Per 5	Spd 5

Skill Bonus
20  lvls Runes		10 lvls Glyhps
10 lvls Survival 	

WARRIOR     
    This Character Type includes any characters that  train predominantly in combat trainings. These characters make up the majority of the combative populace, and their mighty 
combat skills are very much in demand in the dangerous 
realms of Mythosia.

Attribute Bonus
Str 5	Hlt 5	Spd 5	Per 5

Skill Bonus
10 weapons	10 personal	 10 defend
10 combat menuvers

MAGUS
     This character type relies on powerful offensive and defensive spells to keep them alive.  These characters usually train in the use of  a single weapon that may be heavily rune 
to augment their spell casting abilities.  

Attribute Bonus
 Ber 5	Evo 5	Spd 5	Per 5

Skill Bonus
30  Casting	5  Combat 	5 Defend












SORCERER
    This character type relies almost exclusively on their personal spells as they wander about Mythos.  They use weapons only when they are forced to.  Not only do sorcerers use offensive
and defensive spells, but they also use a great number of utility, healing and combat, enhancement spells, and are a great asset to any party. Sorrcers are most efective when with a larg group, as their spells can enhance party member skills.

Attribute Bonus
Ber 5	Evo 10	Per 5	

Skill Bonus
Cast 40

WIZARD
     This character type relies exclusively on personal spells and magic script, and disciplines for their survival. 

Attribute Bonus
Int 10	Ber 5	Evo 5

Skill Bonus
10 Disaplins	10 Casting	10 Script
10 Archane

SCHOLAR
    This character type usually studies ancient artifacts, magic scripts, runes, seeking knowledge of all kinds and usually becoming very well versed in Mythosian lore and ancient history.  A scholar may adventure for the sake of gaining a scroll or other ancient artifact.

Attribute Bonus
Int 15	Lck 5

Skill Bonus
4 Runes		10 Arcane	4   Glyphs
2 History		10 Linguistics 	10 Lore	

BOUNTY HUNTER
   The bounty hunters of Mythos track and hunt Darkens and other valuable beasts that inhabit the game board.  They are sometimes hired to hunt down a troublesome Darken or locate a rare and valuable beast.

Attribute Bonus
Ber 5 	Int 5	Per 5	Lck 5

Skill Bonus
10 Tracking 	10 Lore / beast 	10 Lore/Darken
10 Weapons
	

CAVALIER
     Cavaliers are warriors at heart but prefer to do their 
fighting astride a mount rather than on foot. These characters 
are often sought after to ride with caravans as guards.

Attribute Bonus
Str 5	Ber 5	Hlt 5	Spd 5

Skill Bonus
10 Weapon		10 Animal	
10 Mounted Combat 	10 Combat Menuvers


BUCCANEER
   These sea loving adventurers prefer to travel to their ports of call aboard a ship rather than by land, and are usually 
employed as merchant marines to protect the ship's cargo.

Att. Bns
Hlt 5 	Spd 5	Per 5	Lck 5
 
Skill Bonus 
4  Navigation 	4  Athletics 	10 Sailing  
6  Weapons 	4  Defend		6   Balance 
4  Ranged Weapon	2  Weather Sense

PIRATE 
   The thieves to the high seas, a these characters can become quite wealthy in a short time raiding both cargo vessels and 
port cities. 
 
Attribute Bonus 
Ber 5 	Spd 5	Per 5	Lck 5 
 
Skill Bonus 
4  Navigation 	4 Social-lie 	4 Sailing  
6 Weapons 	4 Defend		2 Balance 
6 Com. Man   	2 Search 
6 Survival-Aquatic	4 Social-Contacts 
 
TEAMSTER 
     The teamsters usually deal with ground transportation 
dealing with the many beasts  of burden of the Grand Game.  Teamsters usually travel with caravans. 
 
Attribute Bonus 
Ber 10		Hlt 5		Per 5 
 
Skill Bonus 
10 Animal		6 Navigation	4  Area Lore 
5 Search	 	5 Tinker		10 Social 
  
ROGUE 
   These characters travel the realms to the beat of a different drum.  They usually do not fall into what is considered normal 
behavior. They specialize in the ability to extract themselves from undiserable situations in a hurry.
 
Attribute Bonus 
Lck 5	Per 5	Ber 5	Int 5	 
 
Skill Bonus 
10 Stealth/Evasion		10 Fast-Talk 
20 any 

ASSASSIN 
These characters are the deadly stalkers of the game  
board.  Assassins are often Imployed by the Legionairs or Speakers  eliminate important figurines of the opposing side. 
Assasins come in a variety of sub types, as there are 
different methods of "Assasinnating" an opponent. 
 
Attribute Bonus 
Spd 5	Per 5	Int 5	Lck 5 
 
Skill Bonns 
4  Fast Draw	6  Weapons 	10 Stealth	
6  Athletic		4  Defend		4 Combat Man.	
6  Tracking	
 HEAVY ASSASSINS 
The MO of this charater type is to choose a target, 
relentlessly hunt it down and kill it. The key word is  
relentless, Heavy Assasins DO NOT STOP unless destroyed.
 
Attribute Bonus 
Str 10	Hlt 5	Per 5 
 
Skill Bonns 
6 Personal	2  Fast Draw	6 Weapons 
4 Stealth		6 Athletic		4 Defend	 
4 Combat Man.	4 Tracking	4 Area Lore 
 
SCOUT 
Scouts are usually well versed in topical navigation and   tracking and are in great demand by porters, and explorers to assist in their quests. 
 
Attribute Bonus 
Per 10	Int 5	Lck 5 
 
Skill Bonus 
4 Athletics 	2 balance		4 Searching 
8 Tracking	2 Area Lore	4 Weather Sense 
2 Linquistics	2 Stealth		4 Survival 
2 Lore		2 Navigation 	4 Stealth
  
PORTER 
    These characters are the organizers of the transportation of nearly all merchandise and goods in Mythos, and are 
responsible for the safe arrival of the goods placed in their
charge.  Many times a Porter will  travel with caravans and 
personally oversee the protection of the goods. 
 
Attribute Bonus
Ber 5	Int 5	Lck 5	Per 5	 
 
Skill Bonus 
10  Linquistics 	6  Survival	6  Weather Sense  
6  Navigation	6 Animal		10 Socail 


 
SCRIBE 
    Scribes are usually very intelligent characters with a high bearing and evocation.  The rely heavily on the reading of magic 
scripts to survive as they travel through Mythos always in search of unique and more powerful scripts. 
Attribute Bonus
Int 10	Evo 5	Ber 5	

Skill Bonus 
30 Script Reading	10 Glyphs

 THIEF 
   Breaking and entry, robbery, and burglary are the traits of
 the thief.  In Mythos, a thief can become rich in a short period of time. 
Attribute Bonus
Spd 5	Per 5	Int 5	Lck5

Skill Bonus 
15 Subversive	15 Athletic		 
	



SPY 
     Being unseen or unnoticed is the earmark of a good spy.  Spies usually prefer not to enter combat unless they have to 
preferring to stay in the shadows.  These characters are in great demand by the Legion of The Black Pearl as well as the 
Speakers of Myth for locating targets for assassination or to
learn of the plans of the opposing side. 
Attribute Bonus
 Ber 5	Int 5	Spd 5	Per 5
Skill Bonus 
 10 Subtrafuge	10 Social		10 Athletic
5 Scholastic	5 Artisan

FORGER 
   The forger in Mythos is usually a fine artisan and is quite skilled in the manufacture of  anything from bogus  tokens to 
coveted ancient artifacts. 
Attribute Bonus
Int 5	Per 10	Spd 5

Skill Bonus 
15 Scholastic 	Artisan 20		5 Runes

ARTISAN 
    The artisans devote their time to producing finely crafted items.  Many artisans also study a specific rune craft that is related to the material that they use.  These artisans can become Master Crafters, and place runes on high quality 
items for others that may not possess the talent to do so on their own.  These characters usually get a high price for this service. 
Attribute Bonus
Int 5	Ber 5	Spd 5	Per 5

Skill Bonus 
20 Artisan		10 Scholastic	10 Runes 


RANGER 
    A ranger is in tune with nature, knowing the ways of the 
animals and adhering to what is perceived as the natural 
order of things.  The ranger has learned to survive off of the land and is well versed in navigation and survival.
Attribute Bonus
Hlt 5	Ber 5	Per 5	Evo 5

Skill Bonus 
10 Survival 	10 Athletics	5 Weapons
5 Unarmed Combat	 5  Artisan

INFILTRATOR 
    Penetrating the enemy lines is the specialty of an infiltrator.  His skills are sought after by the Cult of The Black Pearl and 
the Speakers of  Myth in the perpetual state of war between the two. 
Attribute Bonus
Per 5	Spd 5	Hlt 5	Lck 5	

Skill Bonus 
15 Subversive	15 Athletics	10 Combat Technique 







ENCHANTER 
    This character type uses its personal magic and runes to control others, thus avoiding the need to enter combat or any other dangerous situation in person, choosing to send the controlled creature instead.
Attribute Bonus
Ber 15	Evo 5

Skill Bonus 
10 Runes		10 Scholastic        20 Casting-Domination

MARTIAL ARTIST 
    Unarmed combat and the use of acrobatics is the trade mark of the martial artist.  They are often hired by porters to travel in 
escort to a caravan. 
Attribute Bonus
Str 5	Hlt 5	Spd 5	Per 5

Skill Bonus 
10 Combat Techniques     20  Unarmed-Combat    10 Disaplins			
SURVIVALIST 
    These characters are usually loners, keeping to themselves even when traveling with a party.  Survivalists excel in all the 
survival  trainings as well as most athletics, and are a great as
set to any party's endeavo.
Attribute Bonus
Int 10	Spd 10

Skill Bonus 
30 Survival 	10 Athletics
  
GLADIATOR 
   The gladiator prefers to use its combat skills in the arena or other sporting establishment.  They travel from game to game 
and may accompany caravans or hire out to adventure parties.
Attribute Bonus
Str 5	Hlth 5	Spd 5	Per 5

Skill Bonus 
15 Unarmed Combat	15 Weapons	10 Athletic
 
BREWER 
     These characters are not only well versed in the use of  brewers runes but also in the use of components to cook up 
anything from a healing potion or poison cure to explosive flame water.
Attribute Bonus
Int 10	Ber 5	Per 5

Skill Bonus 
20 Brewing	10 Runes		5 Searching
5 Plant Lore
 
GUARD 
      These characters are skilled in the selection of  the best defensible position and the proper set of the guard, within a 
confined area. 
Attribute Bonus
Per 10	Ber 10

Skill Bonus 
10 Search	10 Unarmed Comabt	10 Weapon
5 Subversive	5 Detect Hidden



 
DISCIPLINIST 
     These characters study the disciplines and use them as they adventure through Mythos
Attribute Bonus
Ber 10	Int 5	Hlt 5

Skill Bonus 
40 Disaplins 

SINTOW 
Sintows Train in using magic to further ther Subversive 
Goals. They tend to concentrate there magic use in keeping hidden and infaltration. Keeping with there tradition of being difrent from the rest of the Subversice types, they alsoe emproy an ample amout of combat.
Attribute Bonus
Evo 5	Spd 5	Per 5	Ber 5

Skill Bonus 
5 Casting-Scrying	5 Casting-Travel	5 Cating-Utility
10 Subversive 	5 Weapons	5 Unarmed Combat
	
WARLOCK      
    This Character Type describes those characters that are predominantly combatants but also train heavily in offensive
 and defensive personal spells. This type of character is often sought after as guards for caravans etc. do to their intense combat 
abilitys.
Attribute Bonus
Str 5	Hlth 5	Ber 5	Spd 5

Skill Bonus 
5 Casting-Offencive	 	5 Casting-Defencive
10 Unarmed Combat	10 Combat Techniques
10 Weapons
 
 






























TRAINING A  CHARACTER    
 
The purpose of training in Mythos is to improve  a character's 
ability to perform specific tasks.  For example: a thief might decide to add to his training base in pick pocket, This would improve his chances to successfully pick a pocket, by 
increasing his training rank in that skill.
METHODS OF TRAINING
      A character can acquire training in Mythos in three different ways,  all require the expenditure of experience points and although the training costs are always based on the race of a character, the  value of the experience points may vary.  The method of learning that a character chooses to employ will directly determine the value of his education.

SELF- TAUGHT
     A character can acquire training in Mythos in three different ways, and all require the expenditure of experience points.  The first way is the most simple way and requires nothing more being self- taught through adventuring.  However, a character that is 
self- taught, can only raise ranks in trainings that it already has, not learn new ones.  The experience point cost for this type of self- taught training, depending of the racial training costs, is either
  1or 5, for each 1 RNK or training.

ACADEMY
     Almost every major city in Mythos has an academy.  Here, for a nominal charge, a character can receive more intensive 
training.  Although the training costs for a specific training are always based on the race of  the character, at an academy  experience points are worth 3 times more.  A character may
 train at an academy to improve already existing skill or learn new trainings.  Either way your character will learn more and spend fewer experience points at an academy.  
     
WANDERING TEACHERS
     Another quirk of the Dark Wind, these teachers, a race unto themselves and pop in and out of the game at random.  The teacher, will  train both Pharayan and Pomparian students.  Experience points are worth double their normal value here.  These quick courses can either improve existing skills or a character can learn new ones.  

THE TRAININGS     

       There are many trainings available in Mythos: combat, magic, athletic, survival, navigation, rune working, artisan crafts and subversive, as well as several speciality  trainings.  Training is an important factor in the determination of characters type.   For example, an aspiring warrior would probably train very heavily in combat trainings while a sorcerer  would be more apt to choose a magic training.  Any character type may train in anything that he chooses by expending the appropriate amount of experience points on the training.

TRAINING BASE                            
 The Training Base TB, is the formula that is used to determine the characters base untrained ability to preform a specific task.  When a character attempts to use s skill that he has no training in, he use the TB to determine his chances of success. 

SKILL
When a character spend experiance points on a  Training he gains Skill in it. The characters TB is added to the Trainings
 Skill to get the Trainings Working Score

 WORKING SCORE
When a character has Skill in a Training, he adds his TB to his Skill to determain the Trainings Working Score.   The working Score is add to the Success role  to determaine what his chances of success are.

TRAINING MAXIMUMS              TRAINING MAX  RNKS / #s 
   The maximum score a character can receive in any Skill, a Trainings  Working Score can never be higher than the 
Trainings Maximum  

INNATE 

      Most of the races possess innate abilities of one kind or another.  In order to improve these abilities, a character must train in use of it's natural skills.  For example, a Shiraka must train in the use of it's stinger in order to increase the efficiency  of it's use. 

MELLE TRAINING                  		                 TB = OFR
G- Blade, Blunt, Axe Head,Pole
C- Sword,  Hammer, Axe,Wooden Staff
S - Bastard Sword, Large Hammer, Small Axe, Pike
U-  Your Sword, Your Hammer,  Your Axe,Your Pike
       This Skill enables a character to skillfuly use a hand-held melle weapon both in attacking with it and perieing. Excedingly high skills in a weapon or weapon type could entitle the character to specail abillities related to the weapon. This is entirly up to the Keeper, but the may include extra attacks, the ability to perie projectiles and many others.  Each race has
 their preferences, however a character may choose to train
 in the use of any weapon that is available in Mythos. 


UNARMED COMBAT TRAINING
TM=Spd+Str+Per+Hlt
G- Strike, Graple, Impact
C-Punch, Kick, Throw, Ram, Pin, Tackle
S- Flyhing Kick, Back hand, Half Nelson
U- Spin Kick to head, Hammer Blow to neck
     Unarmed combat trainings are recommended for those who wish to use martial arts as a form of combat.  Those who have a high WDL can also benefit greatly from these trainings.   Some however, have draw backs in using them , reduce the characters defense abilities while using the unarmed combat maneuvers. 


(G) GRAPLE			
TM = Spd+Str+Hlt/3
    This Training develops the characters abilities to man handle his opponent at close quarters and hand-to-hand. Those who have a high WDL can also benefit greatly from these trainings.   Some however, have draw backs in using them , reduce the characters defense abilities while using the unarmed combat maneuvers. 

(C)PIN          			
TM = Spd+Str+Hlt/3
     This training develops the character's skill in physically restraining  and immobilizing an opponent.  
This training  compliments tackle and it is advised that one who trains in pin also train in tackle.  As with Tackle and ram, the characters weight is an important factor in determining the character's ability to preform well at this training, and the character is at a - (  ) to his DFR for the duration of that RND.  

(C)THROW                                          
TM =Spd+Str+Hlt/3
     Training in throw, will enable a character to place an opponent off balance and physically knock him to the ground.  This training has the same disadvantage to DFR as tackle, ram and pin and can be used in conjunction with ram or tackle.  Like Pin, if the character misses the throw, the opponent will be entitled to a free like counter attack.

(G)STRIKE                                                
TM = Spd+Str+Hlt/3  
Strike training enables a character to improve his abilities 
to use his appendages, arms, legs, tails, or wings to strike an opponent.  One who  trains in strike will learn both offensive
 and defensive uses for their appendages. 

(G) IMPACT			
TM = Spd+Str+Hlt/3
This trainings enables a character to skillfuly bodly impact an opponent in the attempt to damage and/or stun him. 

(C)TACKLE                                               
TM = Spd+Str+Hlt/3   
  This training develops the characters ability to knock down 
and do damage to an opponent, as well as disorienting the
 one who has been tackled.  Those characters with a high 
WDL  can use this training most advantageously.   Because of the position of one who tackles an opponent  both characters have a -(  ) to their DFR for the rest of the RND.

(C)RAM                
TB = OFR
     This training enhances the character' ability to charge at and ram into an opponent.   To those with a high WDL, this training could be devastating to a small or unsuspecting opponent as it does more damage than tackling the opponent.   As with tackle, both  characters involved in the use of  this training will have a - (  ) to their DFR for the rest of that RND.


COMBAT TECHNIQUE TRAINING
TB = PER + INT + BER / 3 
G- Combat Maneuverst,Defend, Guided Shot, Tactics
C-Forest, Sheild,Artilary, Larg Groups
S- Jungle,Lrg Sheild Thunder Bunker, Heavy Assault
U- This Jungle, My Large Sheild, T-Bunker 7, Squad 12 
These trainings will enhance the ability of characters to fight under conditions that may differ from normal, or pre judge conditions to determine the best course of action. 

(G)COMBAT MANEUVERS 
 TB = PER + INT + BER / 3 
    This training sharpens a characters ability to quickly and efficiently scrutinize his surroundings to determine how to 
best use what is available to him in a combat situation.  This training will increase a characters OFR & DFR in a given situation but is not necessarily limited to use by combatants.  For example, a character may enter a room that contains several large pieces of furniture, a subversive or assassin 
 may choose to hide behind the furniture, to lay in ambush or 
merely conceal himself,  a warrior may choose to throw the furniture at an opponent or block a door with it.  The
 character's type may determine the best way to use this training effectively under any given set of circumstances.

(G)DEFEND  
TB = DFR
     One who wants to train in the optimum use of shields, bucklers, or bracers will want to study defend.  Characters training in defend will learn to parry blows as well as well as the best way to block punches. 

GUIDED SHOT                               
TB = INT + PER / 2
     This training develops a characters ability to interact with another when targeting an opponent.  Both of the participants must train to accomplish the desired effect. By using a prearranged method  the guide targets the opponent and the other attacks.  This training  is commonly  used with ranged weapons and a familiar as  the guide.                                 

FAST DRAW                           
TB = SPD + PER / 2
     This training increases the speed at which a character reacts to a combat situation thus improving his ability to gain the initiative in battle.

BLIND FIGHTING 
TB = PER + INT / 2
     When a character looses the use of one or more of his senses sight, hearing, or smell,  in a combat situation, he is said to be fighting blind.  This training teaches the character to compensate for the loss of one or more of his senses, and enable him to fight more efficiently under these adverse conditions.



Throw
G- Axe, Hammer, Stones, Spear
C- Large Axe, Small Hammer, Boulders
S-Double Edge Large Axe, 	Small Thowing Hammer, 	Disk Shaped Boulder
U - Own Personal Throwing Weapon



Marksmanship
TM=MMS
G- Beam, Balistic, Rocket, Enegery Bolt
C- Pist0l, Rifle, Machine Gun, Semi-Auto
U- Zo-Pulse Rifle, AK-47


 ATHLETIC TRAINING
     Athletic training will enhance a characters ability to preform tasks that require the use of a specific athletic function, for example, if a character must climb a wall, he will have a better chance of successfully accomplishing the feat if he has trained in climbing.  Some of the athletic trainings such as riding, boating, and sailing, teach the character the proper way to handle themselves while using these various modes of travel.                                     

FORGERY          
TB = PER + INT / 2
    This training will teach the character to create imitation objects, anything from money to ancient artifacts, depending upon the level of skill attained.




DISGUISE                                       TB = PER + INT / 2
     A character who wishes to learn to hide his true identity would do well to train in the art of disguise.  This training will enhance the character's ability to pass itself off as someone or something that he is not.

DISARM TRAP                                TB = PER + INT / 2
     While adventuring through Mythos a character will encounter many traps and pitfalls.  The character who trains in disarming traps, will be able to avoid trouble by diffusing deadly traps.

RUNNING                                      TB = STR + SPD / 2
     Characters who train in running increase their stamina, enabling them to cover longer distances more quickly without tiring, sprinting for cover to avoid a dangerous situation, or eluding pursuers more effectively.   

CLIMBING                                   TB = STR = SPD  / 2 
     With the widely varied terrain of Mythos, this training is highly recommended for any character that intends to travel any distance by foot.  It will not only assist the character in rock or mountain climbing but will also enable him to climb trees and walls or any thing else        
with greater ease.  One who trains in climbing will also learn rappelling techniques.

JUMPING                                      TB = STR = SPD / 2 
     Training in jumping will enable a character to jump further or higher than he would if he did not train.  It will also assist a character who is jumping from place to place in a rapid manner, such as one might when jumping from rock to rock to cross a river ,or roof top to roof top with greater ease.

SWIMMING                        TB = STR = SPD = HLT / 3      
     This training is especially important for those characters 
who travel by sea or on the large lakes of Mythos.  
Swimmers will learn to float on the water, tread water, and 
dive properly, as well as rescue techniques.  A character 
with swimming training develops the stamina that is 
necessary to keep himself alive in the water for a longer 
period of time than a non swimmer, and is highly recommended for any character who intends to pursue  a maritime career.

BALANCE                                     TB = SPD + PER / 2
     Having good balance is a very important to many character types.  Whether the character be a  subversive using tight rope skills or a  warriors holding his footing against a charging opponent or fighting on rough ground.  These are just samples of the many situations where having balance training could well be the deciding factor between a character's success or failure.  
        
CONTORTION                               TB= SPD + BER / 2
     Those who train in contortion learn to control their bodies by being able to twist them into positions that an untrained character could not. One would be able to fit into tight openings by forcing their bodies to twist and turn through the opening.

RIDING                                         TB = STR + BER / 2      
     There are many beasts of burden in Mythos, some are fine mounts others can pull wagons or carriages.  Those who train in riding will learn how to handle these creatures, how to stay on board a speedy mount or how too hitch a beast properly to a wagon and to drive the wagon or a carriage.




BOATING                                       TB = STR + INT / 2
   This training provides the character with the knowledge to properly handle a small craft on inland waters or rivers.  A character who trains in boating will learn about currents and water hazards.

SAILING                                         TB = STR + INT / 2
     This training will instruct the character in the handling of large sailing vessels.  They will learn rigging and and the 
other skills necessary to pilot a sailing vessel in the large 
lakes or on the open seas.

ACROBATICS                                               TB = SPD 
     This training promotes great dexterity, those who train in acrobatics become very agile.  Acrobatics is the one training that can be used in conjunction with another training.  For example, if one trains in acrobatics and strike and jump, it would develop an ability to kick an opponent in the face or preform any number of other similar combination. 

SURVIVAL TRAINING
     These trainings will aid any guardian who finds him self in the wilds of Mythos, and one or more of these trainings are highly recommended for any character adventuring in many varied terrains and conditions that form the Grand  Game that is Mythos.  

TOPICAL NAVIGATION                   TB = INT + PER / 2
     This training teaches the character to know and recognize the terrain that it is in.  The character will learn the normal geographic features and what to expect in a specific area type and be able to navigate through the terrain that he has been trained in.  The various terrains include:  Water, Air, land, whisper mists, subterranean, canopy, city.

CELESTIAL NAVIGATION             TB = INT + PER / 2
     This will teach the character to navigate by using the stars to determine his position.  A character can even learn how to determine which square he is on by the position of the stars. 

LOCATE FOOD                              TB = INT + PER / 2 
     This will teach the character to hunt for game as well as what plants and other things are edible.  If a guardian  far from civilization finds that it has run out of food this training could decide if it lives or dies.

LOCATE WATER                            TB = INT + PER / 2
     Like locating food, locating water is an extremely important ability in Mythos.  If a character has no water and does not know how to find it he may not long survive.
This training will teach a character how to look for water, what types of ground are most prone to hold water, as well as what types of plants hold potable water as well as the unique places that are known to hold good drinking water.

LOCATE SHELTER                         TB = INT + PER / 2
     Locating appropriate shelter in Mythos can be extremely vital.  The deadly Dark Winds that occasionally ravage Mythos can be instant death to a character that does not know how the seek shelter.  This training will teach the character how to find natural shelter as well as how to construct different types of  shelters in the various terrain. 

TRACKING                                     TB = INT + PER / 2
     The art of tracking assists many guardian endeavors, spies, scouts, woodsmen, and hunters.  Those studying tracking will learn to identify the signs left by the various creatures that inhabit Mythos, and how to follow them.   Some of the races of Mythos have a better sense of smell than eyesight, so sent tracking is also taught as part of this training.

FIRST AID                                      TB = INT + BER / 2
     The study of first aid will teach the character how to treat wounds by using herbs, various plants, and other things available to them throughout Mythos, thus increasing the number of health points the one being treated can heal during the day of the treatment.  Failure to heal the wound on the first attempt will result in the inability to try again until the next day.  Amount to be healed  + 47 =  the wounds DFR.

SUBVERSIVE TRAINING
    This group of trainings contains many useful skills for all character types especially spies, thieves, infiltrators, and assassins.  

CAMOUFLAGE                             TB = PER + SPD / 2
    This training teaches a character how to blend in with it's surroundings, thus making detection of their presence more difficult.    

STEALTH                                      TB = PER + SPD / 2
     One who trains in stealth will learn to move about quietly and inconspicuously.  This will enhance the character's ability to sneak up on another, or to move away from danger undetected.  This training can benefit a warrior as well as a subversive type character.

PICK POCKET                              TB = PER + SPD / 2
     A useful skill to any who would be a thief.  Training in pick pocket will improve the odds of successfully picking another's pocket and getting away with it.

PICK LOCK                                   TB = PER + SPD / 2
     This will teach a character to efficiently use lock pick tools to open a lock. 

CONCEAL OBJECT                        TB = PER + INT / 2
     This will train the character in the art of concealing objects form the view of others using the materials that are at hand.

DETECT HIDDEN OBJECTS           TB = PER + INT / 2
     This is a good training for any character to have.  It allows the character to determine with increased efficiency the presence of hidden objects, secret doors, traps, or an object hidden on another with greater accuracy.

SET TRAPS                                   TB = PER + INT / 2
     This training will allow the character to develop the ability to place traps to obtain their optimum effect.  It will also teach the character to place the traps in places  where they can not be so easily detected.

MAGIC TRAINING
     Because magic is everywhere in Mythos a character would be well advised to study the use of  magic.  Warriors can use magic to enhance their combat techniques, a subversive to compliment his trade and a sorcerer to survive or aid fellow characters.

CASTING                                                     TB = BER
     The character who studies casting, will learn how to cast his spells more efficiently, and gain casting points.

 


SCHOLASTIC TRAINING
     These trainings enhance the character's knowledge of the world that he lives in.  This includes the study of: runes, glyphs, magic script, artifacts, cartography.

RUNES                                                          TB = INT
     The use of runes in Mythos is extensive.   This training will assist a character in the recognition of the many artisan and permanent runes of Mythos, identifying their use and level, and even enabling a character to identify ancient runes if they have sufficient knowledge to do so.

GLYPHS                                                       TB = INT
     Learning to correctly activate glyphs is very important.  Not being able to activate a glyph could  prevent a character from opening a door, or keep it from activating a restricted rune.

SCRIPT READING                                        TB = INT       
      This training will help the possessor of magic script to read them more efficiently, thus increasing the probability of successfully reading the script.

ARTIFACTS                                                   TB = INT
     This training enables the character to identify the various artifacts and relics that were left from the time when Fay and Pompar played the Grand Game.  The ability to identify these relics could be a great asset to any character.


CARTOGRAPHY                                            TB = INT
     This training teaches the character to read and make maps with great precision and accuracy. 
 
  RUNE CRAFT TRAINING

     Since runes are an important part of the Grand Game of Mythos, it would benefit any character to study a rune craft.  The TB for all rune crafts is INT, however , a  character must train in a rune craft at least 1 RNK above the TB, or have the craft as an innate racial ability to use any rune craft.  
     To place a rune on an object, requires skill,  the higher the level of the rune, the more skill is required to place it.  If the rune is not properly placed on an object, it is lost forever and runes are expensive.  There are several classes of rune crafts and a character must train in the use of the use of the material  that it will be placing runes on.  
     A character might choose a rune craft that would best suit his character or racial aptitudes.  For example a warrior training in the use of  blade weapons may want to study rune crafting in metal. This would allow this character to place a rune in any metal object.  On the other hand, an Ice Dracken with it's racial preference of crystal, may want to train in this rune craft, so the it could place runes in crystal.    

CLAY                                               TB = INT + 1 RNK     
     A character that trains in the rune craft of clay will be able too place runes on any object made of clay or any other earthen material, sand and soil. Anything from jewelry to clay fire bombs,  hardened armor or spear tips. to delicate vases can be made from this material.

WOOD                                             TB = INT + 1 RNK
     Wood is abundant in most places in Mythos and having a rune craft in wood allows those who train in this material to take advantage of this natural resource and place their runes on anything that is made of wood.  Arrows. spears, ships, traps, and musical instruments are just a few wood objects that could hold runes.
    
STONE                                            TB = INT + 1 RNK
     Placing runes in stone requires the rune craft  in stones.  Axe  heads, arrow tips, statues, polished stone baubles or any other stone object that the crafter wishes to place his rune on.

REED                                               TB = INT + 1 RNK 
     This training allows the spell caster to place runes on things made of reeds, grasses, bamboo or other similar materials.  Rune crafter  that train in reed put their runes on such things as blow gun darts, reed armor or shields, arrow shafts, baskets, nets, or anything that is made of reed.

METAL                                            TB = INT + 1 RNK 
     By far the most popular medium for placing runes for warriors, metal weapons and armor, carrying a large number of runes.    

HIDE                                                TB = INT + 1 RNK 
     Placing runes on animal hides is another of the rune crafts that is available to the characters.  Whips, and ropes being two of the more common items to hold these runes.  However, as with all rune crafts, the rune worker may place its runes on anything made of animal hides.

GEM                                                TB = INT + 1 RNK 
     A gem can be a thing of seemingly fragile beauty, but it may harbor some of the most potent runes in all of Mythos.  A rune crafter working with gems can place runes in any type of gem or crystal.

GLASS                                            TB = INT + 1 RNK 
     Although glass would seem a very fragile place to place a rune, those who use glass bottles or window pains, counterfeit gems, or fine spears or arrows, find this to be a useful rune medium.

ARTISAN TRAINING

     These are the trainings that enable the characters to use their rune crafts.  In Mythos, the character must make an object himself in order to place an artisan rune on it.  How well he makes the object will determine the levels of runes that the object can hold.  A character can make anything that it wants if it trains in the appropriate craft to make the object.  For example,  a warrior wishes to make a shield he must train in armor making.  He may make the shield from any materiel that he chooses, wood,  stone, metal, hide, reed, etc. but may only place runes in the material that he possesses a rune craft in. The same applies to a brewer, this character may brew his potions in a vessel made of any material that he chooses, but he may only place his potency runes in a vessel made of the material that he has rune craft training in.

CARVING                             TB = SPD + PER + INT / 3
     This training allows the artisan to carve  statues, jewelry, arrow heads or anything he wants out of any material that he wishes to except glass or gems.

POTTER                              TB = SPD + PER + INT / 3
     The potter will learn to make all manner of vessels from a variety of materials.  For example the may choose to make his vases or dishes from clay or by forming hide into the desired shape.  The character may not carve a vessel from stone or wood unless the artisan also  trains in carving. 




SHIP WRIGHT                     TB = SPD + PER + INT / 3 
     One who trains in the art of ship building can build a vessel from any material that he wishes and can construct anything from a small dingy to a large ocean going vessel or in appropriate tech. squares the artisan can build air ships.

JEWELER                           TB = SPD + PER + INT / 3
     Those who study the art of making jewelry can also become quite rich.  This artisan craft allows the jeweler to form fine and intricate pieces of jewelry from a simple reed bracelet, to a fine gold chain.  As with all artisan crafts the jeweler can make his goods from any material that he wishes.  However, if one wants to cut their own gems or crystals, the artisan must also study gem crafting. 

GEM CRAFT                        TB = SPD + PER + INT / 3
    The cutting of a precious stone or a crystal, requires special skill, and special tools.  For those with the patients to work with gems or crystals the rewards can be great.

INSTRUMENT MAKER         TB = SPD + PER + INT / 3
     Like jewelers, those who craft fine musical instruments can earn a lot of posts selling their works. They make any thing from reed flutes to brass horns.

CARPENTRY                       TB = SPD + PER + INT / 3
     A carpenter in mythos can build anything from a bench to a multi story tower.  Carpenters usually work with wood but can incorporate other materials into their structures if they want.

STONE MASON                   TB = SPD + PER + INT / 3
    These artisans deal with stone structures, streets, buildings etc., and when a stone mason also studies carving , is capable of statues the size of the mountain that it is made of.

WEAVING                            TB = SPD + PER + INT / 3
     The weaver can weave anything from any material that can be woven.  Anything from nets and matts, to  armor and weapons if he also possesses training in these artisan crafts.
     
TAILOR                                TB = SPD + PER + INT / 3 
     This training will teach an artisan to create clothing, anything from shirts and tunics to elegant robes and gowns.  the garments can be made of any material that can be readily sewn.

TRAP ART                           TB = SPD + PER + INT / 3
     For the artisan who can produce a well designed trap the monetary rewards can be very great indeed.  Traps can incorporate the use of many materials or just one, that would depend on the creative designs of the artisan.

WEAPON SMITH                  TB = SPD + PER + INT / 3
     Usually the first choice of warriors, the artisan who makes weapons has no shortage of customers in Mythos.  Weapons can be crafted from any material that is available to the artisan.

ARMOR SMITH                    TB = SPD + PER + INT / 3
     Like weapon smith armor making is very popular among Guardians and like weapons, armor can be made from any material that presents itself to the craftsman.

BARDIC                                               TB = INT+ BER
    A distinctively different type of artisan craft, although the practitioner of this craft can not ever directly place a rune on the songs of the bard,  the bardic artisan but by possessing a rune instrument or other rune object the song of the bard can have the same impact as a poison, healing potion, or any other effect that the bard's rune may posses.

BREWING                                                      TB = INT
     Like bardic training, brewers potions do not carry runes, however their mixing vessels do.  By using brewers runes on his personally crafted mixing vessel the brewer of potions can transfer the effects of the runes in the vessel to the potions mixed in them.

GLASS CRAFTER                TB = SPD + PER + INT / 3
     Working with glass can be a delicate procedure, however the artisan working in glass can produce beautiful bottles, mirrors, vases or anything that he desires out of glass.

TINKER                               TB = SPD + PER + INT / 3
     The tinker makes many useful tools using the material that best suits the need of the item that he is crafting or the whim of an eccentric customer.



THE PHARAYAN RACES

VORBAT
BEAST

STR                   	OFR                       VALUE	
HLT                  	DFR		                  P
SPD   	         	DR       
PER                  	AP
INT                                           MP
EVO                                        CP   
BER                                         ML   



INNATE 




















SPITTING TARPA
BEAST

STR                    	OFR                       VALUE	
HLT                    	DFR		                  85 P
SPD   	         	DR        
PER                                         AP
BER                                         MP
INT                                     
EVO                                                                    

INNATE 


VORBAT
BEAST

STR                   	OFR                       VALUE	
HLT                  	DFR		                  P
SPD   	         	DR       
PER                  	AP
INT                                           MP
EVO                                        CP   
BER                                         ML   



INNATE 




















SPITTING TARPA
BEAST

STR                    	OFR                       VALUE	
HLT                    	DFR		                  85 P
SPD   	         	DR        
PER                                         AP
BER                                         MP
INT                                     
EVO                                                                    

INNATE 


CRIMSON CAT TRAINING APTITUDES

BATTLE

ATHLETIC
       

SURVIVAL


SUBVERSIVE
             
RUNE CRAFT 


ARTISAN 


MAGIC

   
SCHOLASTIC

 
DISCIPLINES

SPELL APTITUDE LIST

HEALTH


UTILITY


OFFENSIVE


DEFENSIVE


CRIMSON CAT
POMPARIAN
ENCHANTERS, MAGICIANS

RACIAL ATTRIBUTE BONUS
EVO  10          HLT  10          BER  20      

RACIAL SENSES AND MODIFIERS
VISION   %        HEARING  %            SMELL  %          
WEIGHT  8           MOVEMENT                 BULK

GUARDIAN ATTRIBUTE BONUS  
EVO  5          BER  10          INT  5

GUARDIAN INNATE ABILITIES
ENCHANT BEAST
SUMMON BEAST
   
CHAMPION ATTRIBUTE BONUS  
EVO  10          BER  15          STR  5

CHAMPION INNATE ABILITIES
CHOOSE FAMILIAR
 
GRAND GUARDIAN ATTRIBUTE BONUS 
EVO  15          BER  15          HLT  5          LUCK  5
 
GRAND GUARDIAN INNATE ABILITIES 
BEAST FORM  
Allows the caster to assume the shape of any beast as long 
as it is equal to but does not exceed the beasts level.

















































THE POMPARIAN RACES

DARK TABBYON                                                
POMPARIAN
SPIES, THIEVES, SCOUTS
 
  Dark Tabbyon's were created as a reconisance race. They are  large, 6' tall, bypedal  panther's. Their fur color is usualy a shiny bluish black, although dark shades of grey somtime occure. They are orianted to working at night or in dark area's. They are perfectly designed for a subversive occupation , as their spell land training list's are oriented twards  subversive type's. They live in tribal comunity's in tropical to subtropical climate's, although they are well adept at surviving in temperate climes. They tend to be secretive about their affairs and mysterious about their motive's. They are known for being loyal friends and formidable enemie's. 

      Dark Tabbyons were designed  as spies and thieves.  
Their racial attribute bonus concentrate mainly on speed and perception, these being the attributes that most subterfuge trainings are based on. They gain in bearing and evocation 
as well, but to a lesser degree, usually using their personal
 spells to enhance their subversive abilities.  This trend continues into their title attribute bonuses as well, although 
they gain moderately in health and intelligence at their higher titles.  Dark Tabbyons gain free points at each title, thus allowing them to customize their attributes, and enhance their subversive talents with combat or spell casting abilities. 
 While they were not designated as a combatant race their
 high speed and perception tend to make them formidable opponents. Their claws do a moderate amount of damage.   
       Their strongest aspect is the amount and concentration of innate trainings that the gain from title to title. These  are concentrated solely on those trainings that aid the Dark Tabbyon in their role as thief and spy.  At the title of Grand  Guardian the gain innate spells that further strengthen their abilities to fulfill that role.  They prefer light armor and eapons, knowing that speed is vital, and not wanting to be 
encumbered by heavy weapons and armor. 
     They have aptitudes in the rune crafts of metal and reed. They use these trainings along  with their aptitude towards tool making and weaving, and are well known for their 
tendencies to excel in creating enchanted ropes.  

RACIAL ATTRIBUTE BONUS
SPD 10          PER 20     
BER 5            EVO 5

RACIAL SENSES AND MODIFIERS
VISION          HEARING             SMELL          
WEIGHT        MOVEMENT          BULK

GUARDIAN ATTRIBUTE BONUS  
SPD 10          PER 5                   FREE 5

GUARDIAN INNATE ABILITIES
BALANCE     RANK 9
STEALTH      RANK 9
WEAVING     RANK 9

CHAMPION ATTRIBUTE BONUS  
SPD 5            PER  10                  INT  5 
EVO 5           BER  5              

CHAMPION INNATE ABILITIES
BALANCE
STEALTH

GRAND GUARDIAN ATTRIBUTE BONUS  
SPD 10           PER   10
HLT  5            FREE 15

GRAND GUARDIAN INNATE ABILITIES


DARK TABBYON TRAINING APTITUDES

BATTLE
Small Blade      Medium Blade      Light Blade      Shirkin           Bind Fighting    Bow                    Strike

ATHLETIC
Running           Jumping               Climbing          Balance
Acrobatics      Contortion       

SURVIVAL

SUBVERSIVE
Stealth 1           Stealth 2             Pick Lock

RUNE CRAFT 
 Hide                  Metal                  Reed             

ARTISAN 
Weaving            Weapon

MAGIC

SCHOLASTIC

DISCIPLINES
Impress spell

SPELL APTITUDE LIST

HEALTH
Quick Fix           Cure Poison         Midnight Mend

UTILITY

OFFENSIVE

DEFENSIVE










GOLDEN TABBYON
POMPARIAN
MEDIUM WARRIOR, HEALER, SAILOR

     The Golden Tabbyon was designed a medium warrior. At home on land or sea, with the ability to heal, the Golden Tabbyon makes a good sailor, warrior, healer or adventurer.  These 8' tall muscular cat creatures have 
beautiful golden coats.  
   Golden Tabbyons  were created to play the role of medium assault units. They are strong and quick. There physical 
prowress is complemented by  combat oriented intate spells.  Like their cousins, the Dark Tabbyons, they are a bypedal feline race. However, instead of being  panther  like, Golden Tabbyon's are Lion like. The color of their coat ranges from true gold to a light yellow. They live in temprate to subtropical climes. There sociaty is centered around there kingdom/fort's that they live in. Each kingdom has only one major city, wich is the capital. The city's are giant fortresses, built of the strongest materials at hand. 
They have a monarchial social system. They are ferosuse fighters, but  know their limits well. Golden Tabbyons start with survival training ( Temperate or sub-tropical terrain) at +5 lvls.

RACIAL ATTRIBUTE BONUS
SPD 10          PER 20     
STR 10          HLT 5

RACIAL SENSES AND MODIFIERS
VISION  34%        HEARING 33%            SMELL 33%          
WEIGHT 11          MOVEMENT                 BULK

GUARDIAN ATTRIBUTE BONUS  
HLT 10          STR 5                   BER 5

GUARDIAN INNATE ABILITIES
ROAR                 RANK   INN         
STRIKE               RANK   15 
SOLAR HEAL     RANK   INNATE
SUNBEAM          RANK   INNATE 
CLAWS              RANK   24 DL
   
CHAMPION ATTRIBUTE BONUS  
SPD 10            PER  10        FREE  10

CHAMPION INNATE ABILITIES
CURE POISON    RANK   INNATE
SURE STRIKE     RANK   INNATE
PHYSICAL DISCIPLINE    RANK  36

GRAND GUARDIAN ATTRIBUTE BONUS  
SPD  10           PER    10
HLT  10           FREE  10

GRAND GUARDIAN INNATE ABILITIES









GOLDEN TABBYON TRAINING APTITUDES

BATTLE
All Blade Weapons       All Blunt Weapons        Sling               Strike          Defend            Fast Draw      Combat Maneuvers
Guided Shot

ATHLETIC
Running          Swimming        Boating           Sailing
Climbing

SURVIVAL
Topical Navigation      Celestial Navigation     Locate Food
First Aid

SUBVERSIVE
   Stealth 1             Stealth 2

RUNE CRAFT 
   Metal                    Stone   

ARTISAN 
   Weapon                Armor              Brewing

MAGIC
   Casting  

SCHOLASTIC
   Cartography   

DISCIPLINES
Physical

SPELL APTITUDE LIST

HEALTH
Quick Fix     
Cure Poison
Midnight Mend
Regenerate

UTILITY

OFFENSIVE

DEFENSIVE






BLACK DRACK
POMPARIAN
ASSASSIN, MARTIAL ARTIST
   Black Drack's were desingend as one peice strike force's. 
They stand 7' tall and appear to be a cross between a catfish and a dragon. They have catfish like skin instead of scale's, wich is a dull black color with larg spot's of beige scattered about their bodies. They are most apt at hand-to-hand 
combat and light weapons. Their spells refelect their  need 
for versatilirty and protection, as heavy armor makes 
hand-to-hand combat difficult. Their social and governmental system's are desingend around a monastic life stile, devoting their entire existatance to developing their training.


RACIAL ATTRIBUTE BONUS
SPD 15          PER 10         BER 15         

RACIAL SENSES AND MODIFIERS
VISION  34%        HEARING 33%            SMELL 33%          
WEIGHT 11          MOVEMENT                 BULK

GUARDIAN ATTRIBUTE BONUS  
HLT  5          STR 5          SPD  5          PER 5   

GUARDIAN INNATE ABILITIES
ARMORED FIST  18 DL
WHIP TAIL            6 DL
   
CHAMPION ATTRIBUTE BONUS  
SPD 10            PER  10          STR  10

CHAMPION INNATE ABILITIES
FORCE STRIKE           INNATE
WATER RINGS           INNATE
STRIKE   RANK          21
 
GRAND GUARDIAN ATTRIBUTE BONUS  
SPD  10           PER    5          STR  5             HLT    5

GRAND GUARDIAN INNATE ABILITIES
BREATHE WATER






















TRAINING APTITUDES

BATTLE
Small Blunt        Strike          Ball & Chain              Sling
Blind Fighting     Whip           Whip Tail (Innate)     Pole
Throw               Shirkin        Parry       Fast Draw  
Disarm

ATHLETIC
Running         Acrobatics

SURVIVAL
Navigation (Water)

SUBVERSIVE
   Stealth 1             Stealth 2

RUNE CRAFT 
 Reed           Clay

ARTISAN 
 Weaving

MAGIC
   
SCHOLASTIC
 
DISCIPLINES


SPELL APTITUDE LIST

HEALTH
Quick Fix     
Cure Poison
Midnight Mend


UTILITY

OFFENSIVE

DEFENSIVE



ICE DRACKEN
POMPARIAN
SORCERER, WIZARD, MAGUS


RACIAL ATTRIBUTE BONUS
INT    5              BER 15  
EVO 20        

RACIAL SENSES AND MODIFIERS
VISION  20%        HEARING 30%            SMELL 50%          
WEIGHT  8          MOVEMENT                 BULK

GUARDIAN ATTRIBUTE BONUS  
EVO  10            BER  10 

GUARDIAN INNATE ABILITIES
CASTING          RANK  25
RUNE CRAFT - GEM   RANK  14
ICE TOUCH    INNATE
   
CHAMPION ATTRIBUTE BONUS  
INT 5            EVO 10          BER  15

CHAMPION INNATE ABILITIES
ICE RAY     INNATE
CASTING    + 30 TO RANK
GEM CRAFTER  RANK 6
 
GRAND GUARDIAN ATTRIBUTE BONUS  
INT   10            EVO  10
BER  10           FREE  10
GRAND GUARDIAN INNATE ABILITIES
CASTING     + 48 TO RANK
IMPRESS SPELL   RANK 48





























ICE DRACKEN TRAINING APTITUDES

BATTLE
Small Head       Defend          Ball & Chain       Sling
 Pole       Shirkin

ATHLETIC
Running        

SURVIVAL


SUBVERSIVE
Stealth 1   
          
RUNE CRAFT 
Gem            Glass          Crystal          Wood

ARTISAN 
Gem          Brewing          Carving          Jeweler

MAGIC
Casting
   
SCHOLASTIC
Runes           Glyphs          Magic Script
 
DISCIPLINES
Impress Spell          Impress Immage           


SPELL APTITUDE LIST

HEALTH
All

UTILITY
All

OFFENSIVE
All

DEFENSIVE
All




FIRE DRACKEN
POMPARIAN
HEAVY WARRIOR, WARLOCK

RACIAL ATTRIBUTE BONUS
STR  30             HLT  10      

RACIAL SENSES AND MODIFIERS
VISION  75 %        HEARING  10%            SMELL 15 %          
WEIGHT  14          MOVEMENT                 BULK

GUARDIAN ATTRIBUTE BONUS  
STR  10            HLT  10

GUARDIAN INNATE ABILITIES
CLAWS  12 DL            THICK HIDE  12 DR
   
CHAMPION ATTRIBUTE BONUS  
STR  10          HLT  10          FREE 10

CHAMPION INNATE ABILITIES
WINGS/ FLIGHT
SPEED = 1/2 STR SCORE
FLIGHT TIME IN HOURS = HLT RNK
WEIGHT CAPASITY IN FLIGHT = 1/2 STR SCORE
 
GRAND GUARDIAN ATTRIBUTE BONUS 
 STR  15            HLT  15            FREE  10

GRAND GUARDIAN INNATE ABILITIES
FIRE BREATH  INNATE
FIRE SPHERE  INNATE
































FIRE DRACKEN TRAINING APTITUDES

BATTLE
Large Blade Head        Large Blade                    Ball & Chain
Medium Blade               Edged Pole                     Brawling
Claws (Innate)             Combat Maneauvers      Defend 

ATHLETIC
Running             Fighting
       
SURVIVAL
Topical Navigation          Celestial Navigation

SUBVERSIVE
             
RUNE CRAFT 
Metal                 Glass

ARTISAN 
Weapon           Armor

MAGIC

   
SCHOLASTIC

 
DISCIPLINES

SPELL APTITUDE LIST

HEALTH
Quick Fix

UTILITY


OFFENSIVE
Fire Spells


DEFENSIVE
Fire Spells




SHANDORIAN
POMPARIAN
     Shandorians were disigned as scouts and wilderness survivalists.  Their racial attribute onuses are divided equaly between STR, SPD, PER, and EVO.  This is due to the versiltility required to survive in the wilderness environment.  
These racial attribute bonuses continue through the Guardian
level of the game.  At Champoin level, Shandorians get 5 free points to assign and 20 free points at Grand Guardian to 
allow the race to enhanse specific attributes.  
     The inate weapons of the Shandorians are two large Cycle bones protruding from their shoulders and curving up toward their head.
RACIAL ATTRIBUTE BONUS
 STR  10           SPD  10          PER  10          EVO  10           

RACIAL SENSES AND MODIFIERS
VISION   %        HEARING  %            SMELL  %          
WEIGHT  11          MOVEMENT                 BULK

GUARDIAN ATTRIBUTE BONUS  
STR  5           SPD  5            PER 5          EVO  5

GUARDIAN INNATE ABILITIES
CYCLE BONE ATACK  18 DL
THICK FUR   +6 DR
   
CHAMPION ATTRIBUTE BONUS  
PER  10          EVO  10          INT  5          FREE 5
           
CHAMPION INNATE ABILITIES
CYCLE BONE  +15 TO RANK
BOW  +12 TO RNK
TRACKING  + 12 TO RANK
CAMOUFLAGE  + 9 TO RANK

GRAND GUARDIAN ATTRIBUTE BONUS 
 INT  5        SPD  5          BER  5        EVO  5        FREE  20

GRAND GUARDIAN INNATE ABILITIES
GUIDED SHOT  + 12 TO RANK
TRACKING  + 12 TO RANK
STEALTH  + 12 TO RANK
STEALTH 2  + 12 TO RANK
PARRY  + 12 TO RANK
CYCLE BONES  42 DL
THICK FUR  18 DR


















SHANDORIAN TAINING APTITUDES

BATTLE
Bow          Large Head          Pole          Net         Cycle Bone
Guided Shot          Defend          Parry          Ram

ATHLETIC
Running       

SURVIVAL
Tracking          Camouflage          Topical Navigation          

SUBVERSIVE
Stealth 1          Stealth 2           Detect Hidden
             
RUNE CRAFT 
Wood          Metal          Reed

ARTISAN 
Weaving        Bowyer          Weaving          Brewing  
Taylor

MAGIC
Casting
   
SCHOLASTIC
Runes          Glyphs          Beast Lore         Darken Lore
 
DISCIPLINES

SPELL APTITUDE LIST

HEALTH
Quick Fix

UTILITY
Wind Grappler          The Tracker           Compass Sense
Enhanse Smell          Enhanse Hearing          Phaze

OFFENSIVE


DEFENSIVE






SHIRAKA
POMPARIAN
HEAVY WARRIOR, WARLOCK


RACIAL ATTRIBUTE BONUS
STR  15          SPD  10          PER  10          HLT  5      

RACIAL SENSES AND MODIFIERS
VISION   20%        HEARING 30 %            SMELL  50%          
WEIGHT  11          MOVEMENT                 BULK

GUARDIAN ATTRIBUTE BONUS  
HLT  5           PER  10               FREE  5

GUARDIAN INNATE ABILITIES
STINGER  INNATE  15 DL
NATURAL ARMOR  6 DR
   
CHAMPION ATTRIBUTE BONUS  
STR  10          SPD  15          FREE  5

CHAMPION INNATE ABILITIES
STINGER  + 12 TO RANK
STINGER INNATE  36 DL
POISON  LEVEL 3 FOR 8 ROUNDS 
 
GRAND GUARDIAN ATTRIBUTE BONUS 
PER  15          BER  10          FREE  15
 
GRAND GUARDIAN INNATE ABILITIES
POISON ENHANCENENT   INNATE
STINGER  + 18 TO RANK
POLE   + 15
WHIP  + 15




























SHIRAKA TRAINING APTITUDES

BATTLE
Pole            Whip            Stinger (Innate)          Strike

ATHLETIC
Climbing           Running      

SURVIVAL
Camoflouge          Topigraphical Navigation         Desert

SUBVERSIVE
 Stealth 1            
RUNE CRAFT 
Stone          Hide         Glass       

ARTISAN 
Jeweler

MAGIC

   
SCHOLASTIC
Runes
 
DISCIPLINES

SPELL APTITUDE LIST

HEALTH
Quick Fix          Cure Poison


UTILITY


OFFENSIVE
Sarra Whip

DEFENSIVE










EBLIN
POMPARIAN
THEIF, BARD, ARCHER  MED WARRIOR, SCOUT

Eblin's were created to play the role of high altitude
wilderness combat. They are 5' tall, slenderly built, bypedal squrils.  They live in giant tree city's in almost any 
inhabitable enviroments. They will build there city's in 
Oak Dwell tree's if at all posible. Their government if usualy
run by a councile of some sort(Councile of Elders, Council of Warriors, Elected Councils), although they may be ruled by 
one leader in time's of strife.

RACIAL ATTRIBUTE BONUS
SPD  15          STR  5          HLT  5          PER  15      

RACIAL SENSES AND MODIFIERS
VISION   34%        HEARING  33%            SMELL 33 %          
WEIGHT  11           MOVEMENT                 BULK

GUARDIAN ATTRIBUTE BONUS  
SPD  10          PER  5          BER  5

GUARDIAN INNATE ABILITIES
SONIC CHIRP  INNATE
BARDIC
CELESTIAL NAVIGATION
CANOPY NAVIGATION
   
CHAMPION ATTRIBUTE BONUS 
STR  10          HLT  10          INT 5     FREE  5 

CHAMPION INNATE ABILITIES
CLIMBING  RANK 15
ACROBATICS  RANK 15
GLIDER WINGS
DISTANCE =4 X HEIGHT OF LAUNCH
(Refer to Airial Travel ) 

GRAND GUARDIAN ATTRIBUTE BONUS 
EVO  10          INT  10          BER  10          FREE  10
 
GRAND GUARDIAN INNATE ABILITIES
GLIDING    RANK 12
ACROBATICS  RANK 12
BALANCE  RANK 12


















TRAINING APTITUDES

BATTLE
Medium Head          Net          Cross Bow          Medium Blade         
Combat Maneuvers     

ATHLETIC
Climbing          Jumping          Gliding          Acrobatics       

SURVIVAL
Camoufloge          Celestial Navigation          Topical Navigation
Canopy Navigation

SUBVERSIVE
Stealth 1          Stealth 2          Detect Hidden          Pick Lock
Pick Pocket
             
RUNE CRAFT 
Metal          Leather          Wood

ARTISAN 
Instrument Making          Weaving          Tailor          Vessel Builder

MAGIC

   
SCHOLASTIC
Runes          Cartography
 
DISCIPLINES

SPELL APTITUDE LIST

HEALTH
Quick Fix

UTILITY
Wind Grappler

OFFENSIVE
Sonic Chirp

DEFENSIVE





SCARLET SPIKETOR
POMPARIAN
HEAVY WARRIOR, WARLOCK

RACIAL ATTRIBUTE BONUS
STR  25          HLT 5          EVO  5          BER  5      

RACIAL SENSES AND MODIFIERS
VISION   15%        HEARING 70 %            SMELL  15%          
WEIGHT  17          MOVEMENT                 BULK

GUARDIAN ATTRIBUTE BONUS  
STR  15         EVO  5

GUARDIAN INNATE ABILITIES
SPIKE ARMOR  12  DR
STRIKE  RANK 12
CASTING  RANK 12
   
CHAMPION ATTRIBUTE BONUS  
STR  10          HLT  5        BER  10          FREE  5

CHAMPION INNATE ABILITIES
ROOTS OF TRIPPING
CASTING
 
GRAND GUARDIAN ATTRIBUTE BONUS 
HLT  10          EVO  10          BER  10          FREE  10
 
GRAND GUARDIAN INNATE ABILITIES
































TRAINING APTITUDES

BATTLE
Large Blade          Large Blunt          Pole          Medium Blade
Large Blade Head          Ball & Chain          Strike          Pin
Ram          Combat Maneauvers

ATHLETIC
Running          Jumping          Climbing       

SURVIVAL
Locate Food          Locate Water

SUBVERSIVE
             
RUNE CRAFT 
Metal          Wood          Clay

ARTISAN 
Weapon          Armor          Brewing          Pottery

MAGIC
Casting
   
SCHOLASTIC
Script Reading       Glyphs   
 
DISCIPLINES

SPELL APTITUDE LIST

HEALTH
Quick Fix

UTILITY


OFFENSIVE
All

DEFENSIVE
All




EBONY SPIKETOR
POMPARIAN

RACIAL ATTRIBUTE BONUS
STR  10          HLT  10          SPD  10         PER  5          
LUCK  5
      
RACIAL SENSES AND MODIFIERS
VISION  33 %        HEARING  34%            SMELL  33%          
WEIGHT 11           MOVEMENT                 BULK

GUARDIAN ATTRIBUTE BONUS  
STR  10           SPD  10

GUARDIAN INNATE ABILITIES
SPIKE ARMOR  9 DR
STRIKE  RANK 15
STEALTH 1  RANK 15
STEALTH 2  RANK 15
   
CHAMPION ATTRIBUTE BONUS  
HLT  10          PER  10          FREE  10

CHAMPION INNATE ABILITIES
ROOT HEAL
POISON NEEDLE SHOT
ALTER WEIGHT
 
GRAND GUARDIAN ATTRIBUTE BONUS 
SPD  10          PER  10          HLT  10          FREE  10
 
GRAND GUARDIAN INNATE ABILITIES
STRIKE
BREWING
STELTH
HIDE
DISARM
BLIND FIGHTING

























 EBONY SPIKETOR TRAINING APTITUDES

BATTLE
Smll Blade          Medium Blade          Cross Bow           Shirkin          Medium Blunt          Strike          Ram          Pin          Throw          Blind Fighting          sisarm       

ATHLETIC
Climbing          Balance           Acrobatics       

SURVIVAL
Locate Food           Locate Shelter

SUBVERSIVE
Conceal Object           Stealth 1           Stealth 2           
             
RUNE CRAFT 
Stone           Wood          Reed          Herb

ARTISAN 
Brewing          Armor          Weapon          Tinker          Trap Art

MAGIC

   
SCHOLASTIC

 
DISCIPLINES
Physical          Impress Immage

SPELL APTITUDE LIST

HEALTH
Quick Fix

UTILITY
All Subtrafuge Spells

OFFENSIVE


DEFENSIVE


JADE SPIKETOR
POMPARIAN
Jade Spiketors were disigned as medium scouts for use in foredted terrain and are well adapted to the environment. 
 Their racial attribute bonuses are divided equally among a broad selection of attributes .  This allows them to have a 
wide variety of trainings to start with.  They have the 
potential to become potent magic users as their bonuses are concentrated largely on evocation and health.  This magical aptitude is complimented bythe potential of high health.   They are well protedted when starting out by  their natural armor
 and by their potent spikes.  
Their root like feet give them the ability to grip tightly to most surfaces  When gripping a surface with its fees, a Jade spiketor dose so with a rank equal to its strength rank pluss the bonus given it by its title. The structure of the Spiketor's feet five them one other special bonus.  If a Spiketor is rooted it makes all saving rolls using its grip rank.  This aids in resisting such attacks as throw, lpin, slam etc.     Once a Jade Spiketor attains the title of Grand Guardian they gain the power to alter the desighs in their bark to match surroundings.  This power will only be useful if the Spiketor is within an area that is covered with vegetation (ie under a tree, in an overgrown field, a bramble of bushes or weeds etc.  The knot on the forehead of ta Jade Spiketor is used to communicate with,  They can produce a voice by bibnrating the knot in rapid sucession.  Thus their voices are rasppy and rattly.  The  eyes of this creature are not located on their heads, rather , they are mounted on their chests.  This would seem to cause problems with perception. While it would not aid them by making them more aware, it doen not hinder them.  This may seem unrealistic but concidering the nature of Board World and its creatures, this is an irrelevent question.  Suffice it to say that that they were developed that way.

RACIAL ATTRIBUTE BONUS
STR  10          HLT 10          BER  10          EVO  10      

RACIAL SENSES AND MODIFIERS
VISION 20  %        HEARING  60%            SMELL  20%          
WEIGHT 8            MOVEMENT                 BULK

GUARDIAN ATTRIBUTE BONUS  
HLT  10          EVO  10

GUARDIAN INNATE ABILITIES
SPIKE ARMOR  12 DR
STRIKE   RANK 15
BALANCE  RANK 15   
CHAMPION ATTRIBUTE BONUS  
HLT  5          BER  15          EVO  5           FREE  5

CHAMPION INNATE ABILITIES
POWER LEACH
GRIPPING  RANK  7
SPIKE FIST  18 DL

GRAND GUARDIAN ATTRIBUTE BONUS 
SPD  5         STR  10          BER  5          EVO  5        FREE 5 

GRAND GUARDIAN INNATE ABILITIES
SMALL BLADE   RANK 9
MEDIUM BLADE  RANK 9
CHAMELION
CAMOFLAGE (In thick Vegetation)  RANK  54
JADE SPIKETOR TRAINING APTITUDES

BATTLE
Small Blade          Medium Blade          Bow          Throw          Strike          Ram

ATHLETIC
Climbing          Balance       

SURVIVAL
Camaflouge          Forest Navigation           Locate Food
Locate Water       Tracking

SUBVERSIVE
Stealth 1          Stealth 2
             
RUNE CRAFT 
Wood

ARTISAN 
Instruments

MAGIC
Casting
   
SCHOLASTIC

 
DISCIPLINES
Physical
SPELL APTITUDE LIST

HEALTH
Quick Fix           Root Heal

UTILITY


OFFENSIVE


DEFENSIVE
 




 The magic of the boards and creatures of Mythos makes it a unique place.  Because of the mass infusion of magic at the
time of sentient All the guardian races, some of the plants,
the earth itself, as well as most of the beasts of Mythos use
magic.  Some of the races are better suited to use more of
the magic available than others, but all can use it.

     Guardians can either gain spells as they gain levels,
from the spell base of the race, or they can purchase them.
(Where other than a brew shop to be determined at a later
time.) (Make sure spell base is defined in the race section.)


           Insert a blank copy of spell catalog for
           definitions, and explanations.

                                    
                    Casting Points (CP)

     The casting points is the number of points needed to
cast a specific spell, and are the spells (AP) Attack Points.
These points will replenish themselves after every round and
may be increased by gaining experience and gaining levels in
Casting Rank.  Casting points are only used when a spell
caster is in combat, they do not apply to non combat
situations as do Magic Levels.

                     Level (LVL)

     A Spells level (lvl) is also the number of casting
points required to cast the spell and is an indicator of how
powerful the spell is.

                     Rank (RNK)

The spell's rank is the spells DFR. The spell rank -47 is its
OFR. To determine the TS for a Casting SR, spell rank use the
characters Casting Rank as the OFR and the spell's rank for
the DFR.
DFR-OFR=TS.

                    Prolong Cost (PR C)

     Some spells can be prolonged and some can not.  Those
that have a PR C may be extended by expending the number of
ML's listed in the box next to PR C.  The spell Does not have
to be recast and requires no further expenditure of Casting
Points.

                    Magic Levels (ML)

     Magic levels determine how much magic a spell caster can
use in a day, and are only renewed once a day.  These levels
can be increased by gaining experience and raising levels in
Evocation.  Magic Levels are expended every time a spell is
cast whether in combat or not.

                       Range (RNG)

     The range of a spell determines how far away from the
spell caster a specific spell can travel.  If the range of a
spell is Self then the spell caster is the only one who will
be affected by it, if the range is touch then the spell's
effect will be centered on what ever the spell is cast on.
Some spells can be sent distances to effect targets that are
many feet away from the spell caster.


VORBAT
BEAST

STR                   	OFR                       VALUE	
HLT                  	DFR		                  P
SPD   	         	DR       
PER                  	AP
INT                                           MP
EVO                                        CP   
BER                                         ML   



INNATE 




















SPITTING TARPA
BEAST

STR                    	OFR                       VALUE	
HLT                    	DFR		                  85 P
SPD   	         	DR        
PER                                         AP
BER                                         MP
INT                                     
EVO                                                                    

INNATE 


VORBAT
BEAST

STR                   	OFR                       VALUE	
HLT                  	DFR		                  P
SPD   	         	DR       
PER                  	AP
INT                                           MP
EVO                                        CP   
BER                                         ML   



INNATE 




















SPITTING TARPA
BEAST

STR                    	OFR                       VALUE	
HLT                    	DFR		                  85 P
SPD   	         	DR        
PER                                         AP
BER                                         MP
INT                                     
EVO                                                                    

INNATE 


ITAWI
PHARAYAN
BOUNTY HUNTER, INFILTRATOR, SURVIVALIST


     The rugged Itawi was designed to be a commando type character, excelling both in stealth and combat.  After the time of sentience, this race became adept bounty hunters, and infiltrators.  The Itawi have been called upon by the Cult of 
the Black Pearl to undertake delicate rescue missions, and preform other specialized missions. 
     The Itawi are a medium sized race, usually standing between 8'  to 9' tall.  They have a wheat colored coat with  dark brown spots on their back and a short bristly mane that runs from the top of the head to mid shoulder.  The Itawi have   a large upper torso possessing great streangth in their arms thus receiving a + 5 to both one and two handed swings.   

RACIAL ATTRIBUTE BONUS
STR  10          HLT 10          SPD 10           PER  10      

RACIAL SENSES AND MODIFIERS
VISION   34%        HEARING  33%            SMELL 33 %          
WEIGHT 11            MOVEMENT                 BULK

GUARDIAN ATTRIBUTE BONUS  
SPD  5          PER  5          EVO  5          BER  5

GUARDIAN INNATE ABILITIES
ENCHANT BEAST
ENCHANT DARKEN
IMPRESS IMMAGE 
  
CHAMPION ATTRIBUTE BONUS  
BER  10          INT  10          LUCK  5          FREE  5

CHAMPION INNATE ABILITIES
ENCHANT BEAST
ENCHANT DARKEN
IMPRESS IMMAGE 
 
GRAND GUARDIAN ATTRIBUTE BONUS
SPD  10          PER  10         HLT 10         INT  5        FREE  5           
 
GRAND GUARDIAN INNATE ABILITIES
ENCHANT BEAST
ENCHANT DARKEN
IMPRESS IMMAGE 


ITAWI TRAINING APTITUDES

BATTLE
Large Blade      Pole     Net     Aim and Shoot      Throw     Pin
Cross Bow      Guided Shot  

ATHLETIC
Running     Swimming     Climbing           

SURVIVAL
Find Food    Find Shelter      Find water     Celestial Navigation

SUBVERSIVE
Stealth 1          Stealth 2          Conceal Object             

RUNE CRAFT 
Leather          Hide          Reed

ARTISAN 
Weaving          

MAGIC
Casting
   
SCHOLASTIC
Runes          Glyphs          Beast Lore      Darken Lore
 
DISCIPLINES
Physical
Impress Immage

SPELL APTITUDE LIST

HEALTH
Quick Fix       Midnight Mend          Cure Poison

UTILITY
ALL

OFFENSIVE
Sure Strike         Sarra Whip          Arms of Entanglement
Hold  Beast         Hold Darken                               




DEFENSIVE
Sanctum Armor 


RAJACK
PHARAYAN
THEIF, SINTOW, SPY

RACIAL ATTRIBUTE BONUS
SPD  10          PER  10          BER  10          LUCK  10      

RACIAL SENSES AND MODIFIERS
VISION   34%        HEARING 33 %            SMELL 33 %          
WEIGHT 11           MOVEMENT                 BULK

GUARDIAN ATTRIBUTE BONUS  
SPD  5          PER  5          LUCK  10

GUARDIAN INNATE ABILITIES
CLOAK  10
PHAZE  3
OBJECT SPEAK  3
   
CHAMPION ATTRIBUTE BONUS  
SPD  5         PER  5         LUCK  10         BER 5          EVO  5

CHAMPION INNATE ABILITIES
CLOAK  20
DETECT INVISIBILITY 12

GRAND GUARDIAN ATTRIBUTE BONUS 
SPD  15      PER  15         LUCK  10  

GRAND GUARDIAN INNATE ABILITIES
DETECT TRAPS  24
DISARM TRAPS  24


RAJACK TRAINING APTITUDES

BATTLE
Small Blade          Shirkun          Cross Bow     Aim and Shoot
Beam Weapons   

ATHLETIC
Running     Climbing     Contortion     Acrobatics       

SURVIVAL
City Survival     Locate Shelter

SUBVERSIVE
All             

RUNE CRAFT 
Wood          Metal

ARTISAN 
Trap Craft          Tool Crafter


MAGIC
Casting
   
SCHOLASTIC
Cartography     City Lore     Runes     Glyphs
 
DISCIPLINES
Mental      Impress Object


SPELL APTITUDE LIST

HEALTH
Quick Fix     Midnight Mend

UTILITY
All

OFFENSIVE
Sure Strike     Feather Weight

DEFENSIVE
Sanctum Armor

CRYSOBOLIS
PHARAYAN
DISCIPLINIST, LIGHT ASSASSIN, ALCHEMIST

RACIAL ATTRIBUTE BONUS
 SPD  10          PER  10          INT  10          LUCK  10     

RACIAL SENSES AND MODIFIERS
VISION   50%        HEARING  25%            SMELL  25%          
WEIGHT 8            MOVEMENT                 BULK

GUARDIAN ATTRIBUTE BONUS  
SPD  5            PER  5              INT  5            LUCK  5 

GUARDIAN INNATE ABILITIES
NIGHT VISION  6
BREATHE WATER  5
JUMPING  5
  
CHAMPION ATTRIBUTE BONUS  
SPD  5          PER  5            INT  5         HLT 10         BER  5

CHAMPION INNATE ABILITIES
ULTRA VISION  10
ALTER SHAPE   10
ENHANSE SPEED  12  

GRAND GUARDIAN ATTRIBUTE BONUS 
SPD  10            PER  10              INT  10            LUCK  10 
 

GRAND GUARDIAN INNATE ABILITIES
CLOAK  48


CRYSOBOLIS TRAINING APTITUDES

BATTLE
Light Blade          Pole          Thrown Weapon          Net     Blind fighting       Combat Maneauvers

ATHLETIC
Swimming          Jumping      

SURVIVAL
Swamp Survival        Celestial Navigation          Water Navigation      Locate Water     

SUBVERSIVE
Stealth 1          Stealth 2     Conceal Object     Detect Hidden
             
RUNE CRAFT 
Stone          Reed          Metal          Glass

ARTISAN 
Weapon          Trap Craft          Brewing       Poison Craft     
Small Boat Craft      

MAGIC
Casting          
   
SCHOLASTIC
Runes     Glyphs     Herb Lore     Animal  Lore     Arcane
Poison Lore
 
DISCIPLINES
ALL

SPELL APTITUDE LIST

HEALTH
Quick Fix     Cure Poison     Neutralize Poison

UTILITY
Enhanse Poison         Enhanse Spd         Enhanse  Int    
Enhanse Hlt                Enhanse Per          Magic Hands
Cloak                          Invisibility               Heightened Hearing     
Heightened  Smell      Area Sense           Phaze    
Force Bridge              Float                       Wall Walk          
Null Sound                  Null Scent           Vanish

OFFENSIVE
Sure Strike          Shocking Grasp

DEFENSIVE
Sanctum Armor

SARETTA
PHARAYAN
ARTISAN  RUNE LORD WIZZARD  SCRIBE

RACIAL ATTRIBUTE BONUS
PER  10           INT 10          EVO  10       BER  10      

RACIAL SENSES AND MODIFIERS
VISION  34 %        HEARING 33 %            SMELL  33%          
WEIGHT 8           MOVEMENT                 BULK

GUARDIAN ATTRIBUTE BONUS  
SPD  10          PER  5       LUCK  5

GUARDIAN INNATE ABILITIES
CLAWS       DL 18 
STEALTH 1  LVL 5
STEALTH 2  LVL 5
 
CHAMPION ATTRIBUTE BONUS  
INT  10          BER  15          FREE  5

CHAMPION INNATE ABILITIES
METAL CRAFT 6
TINKER   6
RUNES    6
GLYPHS  6 

GRAND GUARDIAN ATTRIBUTE BONUS 
SPD  10          PER  10          HLT  15          FREE  5
 
GRAND GUARDIAN INNATE ABILITIES


SARETTA TRAINING APTITUDES

BATTLE
Small Blade     Aim and Shoot     Combat Maneauvers

ATHLETIC
Running     Climbing     Swimming      

SURVIVAL
City Survival     

SUBVERSIVE
Stealth 1     Stealth 2     Detect Hidden     Disarm Trap     
Set Trap   Concel Object     Camouflage
             
RUNE CRAFT 
Wood     Metal     Glass     Stone     Leather

ARTISAN 
Trap Art     Tinker   Glass Crafter

MAGIC
Casting
   
SCHOLASTIC
Runes     Glyphs
 
DISCIPLINES
Physical      Impress Object

SPELL APTITUDE LIST

HEALTH
Quick Fix

UTILITY
Enhanse Int     Enhanse Speed          

OFFENSIVE
Sure Strike

DEFENSIVE
Sanctum Armor

VELOSSA
PHARAYAN
MEDIUM WARRIOR, MEDIUM ASSASSIN, MERCENARY

RACIAL ATTRIBUTE BONUS
STR  5        HLT  10          SPD   10       PER  10         LUCK 5       

RACIAL SENSES AND MODIFIERS
VISION  34 %        HEARING 33 %            SMELL 33 %          
WEIGHT  6            MOVEMENT +2                 BULK

GUARDIAN ATTRIBUTE BONUS  
STR  5          SPD  5          PER  5          LUCK  5

GUARDIAN INNATE ABILITIES
SURE STRIKE  6
COMBAT MANEAUVERS  5
CLAWS   18 DL  
  
CHAMPION ATTRIBUTE BONUS  
SPD  10         PER  10          LUCK  10

CHAMPION INNATE ABILITIES
SPD ENHANSE  LEVEL 10
BLIND FIGHTING   10
AREA SENSE       12

GRAND GUARDIAN ATTRIBUTE BONUS 
 HLT  10          STR  10          SPD  10          PER  10

GRAND GUARDIAN INNATE ABILITIES
STR ENNHANSE  LEVEL  10
PER ENHANSE  LEVEL   10
LIGHTNING STRIKE  LEVEL 10
SANCTUM ARMOR  LEVEL 18

VELOSSA TRAINING APTITUDES

BATTLE
Medium Blade     Medium Head     Claws     Cross Bow
Strike      Combat maneauvers     Defend       

ATHLETIC
Running     Jumping     Swimming     Acrobatics       

SURVIVAL
Locate Food     Locate Water

SUBVERSIVE
Stealth 1     Stealth 2
             
RUNE CRAFT 
Metal

ARTISAN 
Weapon     Armor

MAGIC
Casting
   
SCHOLASTIC
Cartography     Lore
 
DISCIPLINES
Physical     Mental
SPELL APTITUDE LIST

HEALTH
Quick Fix          

UTILITY
Wind Grappler     Enhanse Spd     Enhanse Per     
Enhanse  Str     Enhanse Luck     Compass Sense     
Invisibility     Cloak     Weapon Mend


OFFENSIVE
Sure Strike     Flaming Weapon     Frosting Strike     
Force Strike     Feather Weight     Sunder

DEFENSIVE
Sanctum Armor      Fasbark Shield      Force Sheild


SABER WING
PHARAYAN
SCHOLAR, SCRIBE, RUNE LORD

RACIAL ATTRIBUTE BONUS
INT  20        SPD  10          PER  5           BER 5      

RACIAL SENSES AND MODIFIERS
VISION  75%        HEARING 20%            SMELL 5%          
WEIGHT            MOVEMENT                 BULK

GUARDIAN ATTRIBUTE BONUS  
INT  10          SPD  5          BER  5

GUARDIAN INNATE ABILITIES
ARCANE   5                CARTOGRAPHY  3
RUNES      6
GLYPHS   2 
  
CHAMPION ATTRIBUTE BONUS  
INT  10          SPD  5          PER  10          BER  5

CHAMPION INNATE ABILITIES
ARCANE     7                 
LANGUAGES  5
FLIGHT  LVL  20

GRAND GUARDIAN ATTRIBUTE BONUS 
INT  10        HLT  10        SPD  5           PER  5          BER  10
 
GRAND GUARDIAN INNATE ABILITIES
WINGS   LVL  48


SABER WING TRAINING APTITUDES

BATTLE
Pole

ATHLETIC
Running          Climbing          Acrobatics          Swimming       

SURVIVAL
Locate Water          Topical Navigation          

SUBVERSIVE
 Pick Lock          Detect Trap          Dissarm Trap
            
RUNE CRAFT 
All

ARTISAN 
All

MAGIC
Casting
   
SCHOLASTIC
All
 
DISCIPLINES
Mental        Physical        Impress Object        Impress Immage


SPELL APTITUDE LIST

HEALTH
Quick Fix

UTILITY
Phaze

OFFENSIVE
None

DEFENSIVE
Sanctum Armor
Forcythum Bubble

CRYSTAL SERPAN
PHARAYAN
SPELL CASTER

RACIAL ATTRIBUTE BONUS
 EVO  20          BER  20     

RACIAL SENSES AND MODIFIERS
VISION   %        HEARING  %            SMELL  %          
WEIGHT 8           MOVEMENT                 BULK

GUARDIAN ATTRIBUTE BONUS  
EVO  10          BER  10

GUARDIAN INNATE ABILITIES
CASTING                  8
IMPRESS SPELL       8 
   
CHAMPION ATTRIBUTE BONUS  
EVO  15          BER  15

CHAMPION INNATE ABILITIES
CASTING   10
IMPRESS SPELL  10
LAZER EYES   12 DL

GRAND GUARDIAN ATTRIBUTE BONUS 
EVO  20            BER  20
 
GRAND GUARDIAN INNATE ABILITIES
CASTING  10   
IMPRESS SPELL  10
LAZER EYES 48 DL 


CRYSTAL SERPAN TRAINING APTITUDES

BATTLE
Pole            Small Blade
ATHLETIC
 Swimming      

SURVIVAL
None

SUBVERSIVE
None             
RUNE CRAFT 
Crystal

ARTISAN 
Alchemey          Gem Craft

MAGIC
Casting
   
SCHOLASTIC
Magic Script         Glyphs
 
DISCIPLINES
Impress Spell

SPELL APTITUDE LIST

HEALTH
All

UTILITY
All

OFFENSIVE
All

DEFENSIVE
All

RUBY SERPAN
PHARAYAN
HEAVY WARRIOR, WARLOCK

RACIAL ATTRIBUTE BONUS
STR  10        SPD  10        PER  10        EVO  5         BER  5      

RACIAL SENSES AND MODIFIERS
VISION  20 %        HEARING 20 %            SMELL 20 %
AREA SENSE  40%
          
WEIGHT 17           MOVEMENT                 BULK

GUARDIAN ATTRIBUTE BONUS  
SPD  5         EVO  5            PER  5          BER  5

GUARDIAN INNATE ABILITIES
LAZER EYES  48 DL
  
CHAMPION ATTRIBUTE BONUS  
HLT  10         SPD  5           PER  5          LUCK  10

CHAMPION INNATE ABILITIES
LAZER EYES  72  DL
 
GRAND GUARDIAN ATTRIBUTE BONUS 
STR  10     SPD  10     PER  5     EVO  5    BER  5     LUCK  5      

GRAND GUARDIAN INNATE ABILITIES
LAZER EYES  96 DL

RUBY SERPAN TRAINING APTITUDES

BATTLE
Large Blade         Two Handed Sword            Pole      
Aim and Shoot     Combat Maneauvers            Ram       
Pitch

ATHLETIC
Running          Climbing           Swimming       

SURVIVAL
Locate Food          Locate Water

SUBVERSIVE
 Stealth 1          Stealth 2            

RUNE CRAFT 
Metal          Gem

ARTISAN 
Weapon Craft        Armor Craft

MAGIC
Casting
   
SCHOLASTIC
Runes     Glyphs     Arcane
 
DISCIPLINES
Physical          Impress Spell


SPELL APTITUDE LIST

HEALTH
Quick Fix             Midnight Mend     Solar Heal

UTILITY
Alter Weight        Alter Size            Vortex               Invisibility     
Wind Grappler     Enhanse Spd      Enhanse Per     
Enhanse  Str       Enhanse Luck     Enhanse  Ber   
 Enhanse  Evo     Enhanse Ber       Compass Sense     
Weapon Mend     Phaze                  Cloak


OFFENSIVE
All

DEFENSIVE
All

TROW
PHARAYAN
HEAVY WARRIOR, WARLOCK

RACIAL ATTRIBUTE BONUS
 STR  20         SPD  10        PER  10    

RACIAL SENSES AND MODIFIERS
VISION   %        HEARING  %            SMELL  %          
WEIGHT            MOVEMENT                 BULK

GUARDIAN ATTRIBUTE BONUS  
STR  10          SPD  5          PER  5

GUARDIAN INNATE ABILITIES
CLAWS  DL 48
   
CHAMPION ATTRIBUTE BONUS  

CHAMPION INNATE ABILITIES
 
GRAND GUARDIAN ATTRIBUTE BONUS 
 
GRAND GUARDIAN INNATE ABILITIES


TROW TRAINING APTITUDES

BATTLE

ATHLETIC
       

SURVIVAL


SUBVERSIVE
             
RUNE CRAFT 


ARTISAN 


MAGIC

   
SCHOLASTIC

 
DISCIPLINES

SPELL APTITUDE LIST

HEALTH


UTILITY


OFFENSIVE


DEFENSIVE


VITEX
PHARAYAN

THEIF, SPY, BARD, GAMBLER, HEALER

RACIAL ATTRIBUTE BONUS
 SPD  10          PER  10          INT  10          LUCK  10     

RACIAL SENSES AND MODIFIERS
VISION   50%        HEARING  25%            SMELL  25%          
WEIGHT  8            MOVEMENT  +5                 BULK

GUARDIAN ATTRIBUTE BONUS  
SPD  5          PER  5          BER  5          LUCK  5

GUARDIAN INNATE ABILITIES
VANISH  LEVEL  5    
ENHANSE SPEED  LEVEL  3
AREA SENSE  LEVEL  3 
MIDNIGHT MEND  LEVEL  5
 
CHAMPION ATTRIBUTE BONUS  
SPD  5        PER  5        INT  5        BER  5         LUCK  5
FREE  5

CHAMPION INNATE ABILITIES
VANISH   LEVEL  10
AREA SENSE    LEVEL  10
BLIND FIGHTING   LEVEL  12   
    
GRAND GUARDIAN ATTRIBUTE BONUS 
HLT  10          EVO  5         LUCK  10           FREE  15
 
GRAND GUARDIAN INNATE ABILITIES
INVISIBILITY  LEVEL   20
CLOAK   LEVEL  20
ENHANSE SPEED   LEVEL  18


VITEX TRAINING APTITUDES

BATTLE
Small Blade     Pointed Sword ( Rapier)     Thrown Weapons
Pitch     Combat Maneauvers     Tactical Maneauvers     
Aim and Shoot   

ATHLETIC
Running     Climbing     Swimming       

SURVIVAL
City Survival

SUBVERSIVE
Stealth 1     Stealth 2     Conceal Object     Camouflage
Disquise      Detect Hidden
            
RUNE CRAFT 
Leather     Wood     Metal    

ARTISAN 
Tailor     Instrument Maker     Tinker

MAGIC
Casting
   
SCHOLASTIC
Arcaine Language     Runes     Glyphs  
 
DISCIPLINES
Transfer Speed          Impress Immage

SPELL APTITUDE LIST

HEALTH
ALL

UTILITY
Invisibility     Vortex     Phaze     Phaze Pick     Vanish
Wind Grappler

OFFENSIVE
Sure Strike

DEFENSIVE
Sanctum Armor


RED CAP
PHARAYAN
MEDIUM ASSASSIN, VENOMIST, INFILTRATOR

RACIAL ATTRIBUTE BONUS
SPD  10          PER  10           LUCK  10      

RACIAL SENSES AND MODIFIERS
VISION   %        HEARING  %            SMELL  %          
WEIGHT            MOVEMENT                 BULK

GUARDIAN ATTRIBUTE BONUS  
SPD  5          PER  5           LUCK  10

GUARDIAN INNATE ABILITIES
PHAZE  LVL 5
CLOAK  LVL10 
AREA SENSE  LVL 1
   
CHAMPION ATTRIBUTE BONUS  

CHAMPION INNATE ABILITIES
 
GRAND GUARDIAN ATTRIBUTE BONUS 
 
GRAND GUARDIAN INNATE ABILITIES



RED CAP TRAINING APTITUDES

BATTLE

ATHLETIC
       

SURVIVAL


SUBVERSIVE
             
RUNE CRAFT 


ARTISAN 


MAGIC

   
SCHOLASTIC

 
DISCIPLINES

SPELL APTITUDE LIST

HEALTH


UTILITY


OFFENSIVE


DEFENSIVE



BLACK DOG
PHARAYAN

RACIAL ATTRIBUTE BONUS
STR  10          HLT  10          SPD  10          PER  10      

RACIAL SENSES AND MODIFIERS
VISION   %        HEARING  %            SMELL  %          
WEIGHT            MOVEMENT                 BULK

GUARDIAN ATTRIBUTE BONUS  
STR  5          HLT  5       SPD  5          PER  5

GUARDIAN INNATE ABILITIES
MAGIC SWORD  18 DL  + 5 OFR   + 5 DFR
   
CHAMPION ATTRIBUTE BONUS  

CHAMPION INNATE ABILITIES
 
GRAND GUARDIAN ATTRIBUTE BONUS 
 
GRAND GUARDIAN INNATE ABILITIES



BLACK DOG TRAINING APTITUDES

BATTLE

ATHLETIC
       

SURVIVAL


SUBVERSIVE
             
RUNE CRAFT 


ARTISAN 


MAGIC

   
SCHOLASTIC

 
DISCIPLINES

SPELL APTITUDE LIST

HEALTH


UTILITY


OFFENSIVE


DEFENSIVE



GOLDEN RAZILL
PHARAYAN
RACIAL ATTRIBUTE BONUS
      

RACIAL SENSES AND MODIFIERS
VISION   %        HEARING  %            SMELL  %          
WEIGHT            MOVEMENT                 BULK

GUARDIAN ATTRIBUTE BONUS  

GUARDIAN INNATE ABILITIES
   
CHAMPION ATTRIBUTE BONUS  

CHAMPION INNATE ABILITIES
 
GRAND GUARDIAN ATTRIBUTE BONUS 
 
GRAND GUARDIAN INNATE ABILITIES



GOLDEN RAZILL TRAINING APTITUDES

BATTLE

ATHLETIC
       

SURVIVAL


SUBVERSIVE
             
RUNE CRAFT 


ARTISAN 


MAGIC

   
SCHOLASTIC

 
DISCIPLINES

SPELL APTITUDE LIST

HEALTH


UTILITY


OFFENSIVE


DEFENSIVE



ZARBENZINDI  (B. J. )
PHARAYAN
ARCHER,  WARLOCK, BARD
     Chrome people  organic crome-nickel steel.  Resist heat.  Wire filament hair,weak muscles, PHILDSOPHELS, Eat special Beetles.

RACIAL ATTRIBUTE BONUS
      

RACIAL SENSES AND MODIFIERS
VISION   %        HEARING  %            SMELL  %          
WEIGHT            MOVEMENT                 BULK

GUARDIAN ATTRIBUTE BONUS  

GUARDIAN INNATE ABILITIES
   
CHAMPION ATTRIBUTE BONUS  

CHAMPION INNATE ABILITIES
 
GRAND GUARDIAN ATTRIBUTE BONUS 
 
GRAND GUARDIAN INNATE ABILITIES



ZARBENZINDI TRAINING APTITUDES

BATTLE

ATHLETIC
       

SURVIVAL


SUBVERSIVE
             
RUNE CRAFT 
Glass     Metal     Wood

ARTISAN 
Weapon     Brewing     Glass Blowing

MAGIC

   
SCHOLASTIC

 
DISCIPLINES

SPELL APTITUDE LIST

HEALTH


UTILITY


OFFENSIVE


DEFENSIVE



PRINJA    (Jeramia)
PHARAYAN
INFILTRATOR  ASSASSIN  SPY

RACIAL ATTRIBUTE BONUS
 SPD  10              PER  20                  INT  10       

RACIAL SENSES AND MODIFIERS
VISION   %        HEARING  %            SMELL  %          
WEIGHT            MOVEMENT                 BULK

GUARDIAN ATTRIBUTE BONUS  
SPD  5          PER  10             INT  5

GUARDIAN INNATE ABILITIES
QUILL SWORDS   16  DL 
QUILL ARMOR  16 DR  AND 16 DL   

CHAMPION ATTRIBUTE BONUS  

CHAMPION INNATE ABILITIES
 
GRAND GUARDIAN ATTRIBUTE BONUS 
 
GRAND GUARDIAN INNATE ABILITIES



PRINJA TRAINING APTITUDES

BATTLE
Quill Sword

ATHLETIC
       

SURVIVAL


SUBVERSIVE
 Stealth 1  Stealth 2            

RUNE CRAFT 


ARTISAN 


MAGIC

   
SCHOLASTIC

 
DISCIPLINES

SPELL APTITUDE LIST

HEALTH


UTILITY


OFFENSIVE


DEFENSIVE



ATLANTIAN
EXTRA DEMENTIAL
RACIAL ATTRIBUTE BONUS
      

RACIAL SENSES AND MODIFIERS
VISION   %        HEARING  %            SMELL  %          
WEIGHT            MOVEMENT                 BULK

GUARDIAN ATTRIBUTE BONUS  

GUARDIAN INNATE ABILITIES
   
CHAMPION ATTRIBUTE BONUS  

CHAMPION INNATE ABILITIES
 
GRAND GUARDIAN ATTRIBUTE BONUS 
 
GRAND GUARDIAN INNATE ABILITIES



ATLANTIAN TRAINING APTITUDES

BATTLE

ATHLETIC
       

SURVIVAL


SUBVERSIVE
             
RUNE CRAFT 


ARTISAN 


MAGIC

   
SCHOLASTIC

 
DISCIPLINES

SPELL APTITUDE LIST

HEALTH


UTILITY


OFFENSIVE


DEFENSIVE



HUMAN
EXTRA DEMENTIONAL
RACIAL ATTRIBUTE BONUS
      

RACIAL SENSES AND MODIFIERS
VISION   %        HEARING  %            SMELL  %          
WEIGHT            MOVEMENT                 BULK

GUARDIAN ATTRIBUTE BONUS  

GUARDIAN INNATE ABILITIES
   
CHAMPION ATTRIBUTE BONUS  

CHAMPION INNATE ABILITIES
 
GRAND GUARDIAN ATTRIBUTE BONUS 
 
GRAND GUARDIAN INNATE ABILITIES



HUMAN TRAINING APTITUDES

BATTLE

ATHLETIC
       

SURVIVAL


SUBVERSIVE
             
RUNE CRAFT 


ARTISAN 


MAGIC

   
SCHOLASTIC

 
DISCIPLINES

SPELL APTITUDE LIST

HEALTH


UTILITY


OFFENSIVE


DEFENSIVE



TAYSHREW
POMPARIAN
 BREWER, RUNE LORD, WIZZARD

RACIAL ATTRIBUTE BONUS
EVO  10          INT  20          BER  10        

RACIAL SENSES AND MODIFIERS
VISION  0 %        HEARING  25%            SMELL  25% 
TACTILE  50%         
WEIGHT  5            MOVEMENT                 BULK

GUARDIAN ATTRIBUTE BONUS  
EVO  5          INT  5          PER  5     SPD  5

GUARDIAN INNATE ABILITIES
BURROW
BLIND FIGHTING
CONTORTION 
DETECT HIDDEN
   
CHAMPION ATTRIBUTE BONUS  
EVO  10          INT  10          PER  5          FREE 5

CHAMPION INNATE ABILITIES
BLIND FIGHTING 
DETECT HIDDEN  
IMPRESS SPELL
IMPRESS IMMAGE
 
GRAND GUARDIAN ATTRIBUTE BONUS 
EVO  5        INT  10         BER  5         SPD  10        FREE 10        

GRAND GUARDIAN INNATE ABILITIES
IMPRESS SPELL 
IMPRESS IMMAGE
PHYSICAL DISCIPLINE


TAYSHREW TRAINING APTITUDES

BATTLE

ATHLETIC
       

SURVIVAL


SUBVERSIVE
             
RUNE CRAFT 


ARTISAN 


MAGIC

   
SCHOLASTIC

 
DISCIPLINES

SPELL APTITUDE LIST

HEALTH


UTILITY
All Attributre Inhancement Spells

OFFENSIVE


DEFENSIVE



TROLEN CENTAR
PHARAYAN
WARLOCK  WARRIORS  GLADIATORS

RACIAL ATTRIBUTE BONUS
STR  20          HLT  10          EVO  5          BER  5      

RACIAL SENSES AND MODIFIERS
VISION   %        HEARING  %            SMELL  %          
WEIGHT            MOVEMENT                 BULK

GUARDIAN ATTRIBUTE BONUS  
STR  10           HLT  5          BER   5

GUARDIAN INNATE ABILITIES
AREA SENSE  60' SQUARE FEET
TOUGH HIDE    18 DR
ARMOURED FIST  12 DL   
CHAMPION ATTRIBUTE BONUS  

CHAMPION INNATE ABILITIES
 
GRAND GUARDIAN ATTRIBUTE BONUS 
 
GRAND GUARDIAN INNATE ABILITIES



TROLEN CENTAR TRAINING APTITUDES

BATTLE

ATHLETIC
       

SURVIVAL


SUBVERSIVE
             
RUNE CRAFT 


ARTISAN 


MAGIC

   
SCHOLASTIC

 
DISCIPLINES

SPELL APTITUDE LIST

HEALTH


UTILITY


OFFENSIVE


DEFENSIVE



TERM

Attribute               
Rank                         
Strength               
Health                      
Speed                     
Perception 
Intelligence                
Bearing                   
Evocation               
Luck   
Statistics               
Defense Rank
Offense Rank
Attack Points
Maneuvering Points
Damage Resistance 
Casting Rank
Magic Level
Casting Points
Will Power
Weight
Maximum
Weight Damage Level
Weight Rank
Damage Level
Weapon Strength
Round
Turn



VORBAT
BEAST

STR                   	OFR                       VALUE	
HLT                  	DFR		                  P
SPD   	         	DR       
PER                  	AP
INT                                           MP
EVO                                        CP   
BER                                         ML   



INNATE 




















SPITTING TARPA
BEAST

STR                    	OFR                       VALUE	
HLT                    	DFR		                  85 P
SPD   	         	DR        
PER                                         AP
BER                                         MP
INT                                     
EVO                                                                    

INNATE 


VORBAT
BEAST

STR                   	OFR                       VALUE	
HLT                  	DFR		                  P
SPD   	         	DR       
PER                  	AP
INT                                           MP
EVO                                        CP   
BER                                         ML   



INNATE 




















SPITTING TARPA
BEAST

STR                    	OFR                       VALUE	
HLT                    	DFR		                  85 P
SPD   	         	DR        
PER                                         AP
BER                                         MP
INT                                     
EVO                                                                    

INNATE 


HEALTH AND HEALING

MIDNIGHT MEND
This spell causes the spell caster to have a cool soothing
 touch that will heal 12 Health Points, and 12 points for every round that it is prolonged.

REJUVENATE 
  This spell creates a softly glowing sphere 12' in diameter to appear beside the spell caster.  Any who enter the sphere during the duration of the spell will be healed for up to 

QUICK FIX
    This spell allows the spell caster to heal itself only, 21 
points of damage.  This spell can not be prolonged, but may 
be recast.  

 SUNBEAM 
 When this spell is successfully cast, it produces a healing beam of light that when striking a target, will heal 9 points of damage, and 9 points of damage for every round that it is prolonged. 
   If the intended target of the spell is defending against an attack, the spell castor will be at the same disadvantage in hitting his target as the attacker of the spells intended 
recipient.

RESURRECT
This spell will allow the spell caster to resurrect 1 figurine to
 an untrained level 1 character or resurrect a character under 
the preserve spell to its current level.

SOLAR HEAL
    This spell will cause the spell casters hands to glow with a warm yellow light that will heal the recipient of the 
spell 12 points and 12 points for every round that it is 
prolonged. 

CURE POISON
     This spell will cure 18 levels of poison and 18 levels per
RND for every RND that the spell is prolonged.

PRESERVE 
     If this spell is cast on an expired guardian before the end of the combat sequence the referees will not appear to declare 
the fallen guardian expired allowing his comrades time to 
cast a resurrect spell on the slain guardian and save the 
deceased from loosing a level.

NEUTRALIZE POISON
     This spell allows the spell caster to neutralize poison in his body for the duration of the spell.  It will not cure the poison
 and damage will continue after the duration of the spell is
 over.

CURE PARALYSIS
   This spell  will cure 18 levels of paralyses per RND for every RND that the spell is prolonged.

POISON GUARD
     This spell will protect the recipient against 18 levels of poison for the duration of the spell.


SENSORY ALTERATION
FIELD OF SILENCE
This spell negates all sound within the AOE for the duration 
of the spell.  This spell will not effect the recipients hearing, 
and will move as he does.    
SPIRIT VISION 
This spell allows the recipient to see clearly within the  50' AOE.  Through smoke, fog, mist, or other low visibility situations for the duration of the spell.

NULL VIEW 
This spell will allow the recipient to see through solid objects 
up to 100' thick. Their vision will be as normal for the distance beyond the solid barrier.

NIGHT VISION
  This spell allows the spell caster to see, as if they were day light, through normal darkness (Not Magical) for up to 100' 
away.

TELESCOPIC VISION 
 This spell allows the recipient to see normally as if it were 
4' in front of him, any object up to 1/2 mile away,

HEIGHTENED HEARING 
  This spell will enable the recipient to hear normally conversations or noises that are not muted or whispers, for up to 50' away.  This spell will also increase the ability of the recipient to hear clearly whispers,and muted noises up to 25' away. 

HEIGHTENED SENSE OF SMELL
 This spell will enable the recipient to detect scents easily for 
up to 50' away.  

NULL SCENT
     This spell will negate the sense of smell for all within the AOE but will not effect the spell caster who is able to smell 
normally.

SONAR
This spell will allow the caster to locate objects and creatures by use of sonar.


OFFENSIVE SPELLS

THUNDER MALL 
 This spell creates a large magical maul made of light to 
appear at the spell casters side.  The maul will fly at, and attempt to strike any target indicated by the caster that is 
within range, with a DL 21.  Once launched the maul will disappear.

FLAME BOMB
This spell will create a glowing sphere 1' in diameter to 
appear in the spell caster's hand.  This sphere can be hurled 
at an attacker and will explode upon reaching the end of its RNG with a DL 30 to any within the AOE.  The sphere can also be  set in any location and timed to explode at the end of the spells duration, with a DL 30.

BLADE SHROUD 
This spell creates a shroud of small whirling blades to fly 
from the spell casters hands. If  successfully cast, it will 
cover its target and   inflict a DL , for the duration of the spell
 or it is successfully defended against. 

FLAMING WEAPON 
  This spell causes the striking edge of the recipient weapon
 to be engulfed in a blue flame.  The flame will not harm the 
weapon or the weilder and gives the weapon a +12DL.


SPHERE OF DOOM
This spell encases the AEO in a large gas filled sphere causing 100 DL. for every round to any within the AOE, until the spell
 is successfully defended against.

STAR SHATTER
    This spell creates a ball of light that will fly into the air, and upon reaching it's target explodes, causing  DL of 12 to all within the AOE.

SUNDER
  This spell enables the spell caster to create a powerful explosion from its finger tips 
knocking down walls, trees, or any other object that may block its way with a DL 120. This spell will not harm the spell caster.

FIRE BREATH
  This spell creates a 5'long by 1' diameter beam of fire to burst from the spell caster's mouth, having a DL 21,

ICE SPEAR
  This spell creates an spear made of ice flying from the spell casters hand toward its target with a DL 15.

FROSTING STRIKE
  This spell will cause the effected weapon to freeze
anything it touches with out harming the spell caster. The effected weapon also has a DL 12 and will take -4 AP for that RND from one who has been struck by a weapon affected by Frosting Strike.

ROOT WHIP
  This spell causes the recipient to grow a 15'long appendage from his hand, that can be used like a whip with a DL 12.

FORCE STRIKE
  When this spell is cast on a creature, all of it's striking appendages (hands, feet, tail), are surrounded by 
1'diameter spheres of force that will add a DL 12 per RND 
to the striking appendage(s).

BATTERY OF FORCE MISSILES  
   This spell causes an explosion of Force Missiles to be expelled from the spell casters hand, each of the 
10 missiles has a DL 5, and may hit 1 or more targets within the AOE. The missiles fire all at the same time and can do collective damage, if all of them hit their target.

NEEDLE SHOT
   This spell will cause a collection of 10 needles to fly from the spell casters hand with a collective DL 12. If one needle hits its target all will.

STONE AXE
  This spell will cause an axe made of stone to fly from the spell casters hand with a DL 12, and will attack the target once a RND, for the duration of the spell.

FIRE FISTS
   This spell will will engulf the fists of the affected creature in flames, but will not harm the recipient of the spell. This spell does collective damage DL 12 per strike, not per fist, for the duration of the spell.

SAND SHOT
   This spell will cause an explosion of small sand pellets to fly from the spell caster's hand, causing collective damage   DL 12 to all within the AOE.  Since sand is hard to dodge those within the AOE will be at -3 DFR.

ICE RAY
  This spell creates a 5'long by 1' diameter beam of ice to burst from the spell caster's mouth, having a DL 12, and with it's numbing effect, causes the target that has been struck to be at -1 AP per RND for the Duration of the spell. 

SNOW FLAKE
 This spell creates an shirkin like snowflake made of ice flying from the spell casters hand toward its target with a DL 12.

FLAMING WEAPON 
This spell causes the striking edge of the recipient weapon to be engulfed in a blue flame.  The flame will not harm the 
weapon or the weilder and gives the weapon a + DL

SARRA WHIP
   This whip will cause a 15' long whip in the hand of the spell's recipient, having a DL 21.

THORN STAR
  This spell creates a shirkin made of poisonous thorns to fly from the spell's recipient hand.  The DL or the Thorn Star is 
12, with an additional DL 4 for each RND, for the next 
3 RND'S. 

ICE SPEAR
   Depending on the level of the spell cast, 1 to 6 ice spears will fly from the casters hand with a minimum DL of 15.

ICE TOUCH
The icy touch of this spell has a DL of 18 and will cause the affected creature to loose 2 AP for that RND.

FIRE BOLT
A 2' by 1' bolt of flame will streak toward its target with a 
12 DL.

TOXIC WATER POOL
This spell forms an irregular shaped pool covering approximately
100 square feet.  Although this pool appears to be water it is 
in reality a highly corrosive acids with a DL 150 for 5 RNDs.  Anyone who comes in contact with the pool must defend against its effects every RND for 5 RNDs.

FIRE CLOAK
This spell covers the caster with a flowing cloak of flames.
The cloak has both a DL of !5 and a DR of 15.  These increase in a synchronized  manner as the level of the spell increases.

TOXIC SPORE CLOUD
This spell creates a large green cloud of toxic gas that has a 
DL 100 per RND to all within the 200 sq. feet AOE.  Once a victim has come in contact with the cloud he must defend its effects every RND for the spell's duration.

ACID RAIN
This spell will send a luminescent blue cloud toward the intended target.  Once the cloud has reached its target it will begin to rain blue acid over the 100 sq. feet AOE.  destroying 
1/3 of the vegetation per RND for the next 3 RNDs.  Any living creature caught in the AOE must defend against the effects 
of the spells 50 DL for the next 3 RNDs.




GEL-COAT
  This spell sends a slimy purple blob towards its target.  Once struck the victim will be covered in the sticky substance that has a DL of 150 per RND.  This spell must be defended against every RND for the 5 RND duration of the spell.

FIRE STORM
This spell creates a boiling cloud of fire at the end of its range covering  200 sq. feet AOE with magical flames that have a DL  per RND   All creatures within the AOE must defend against the spell each RND for 5 RNDs.  This spell is effective against 
water elementals because it boils them away.  This spell  
does double DL against water elementals.

SUN FLASH
  This spell sends a blinding flash of light toward the target, if successful, the target looses -10 AP.

SONIC CHIRP 
 The caster of this spell directs a loud chirping sound towards its target stunning the victim causing him to have a - AP per round for the duration of the spell or it is successfully 
defended against.  If successfully cast, this spell will also 
have a DL FOR THE FIRST RND ONLY!

JET STREAM
This spell sends out a powerfull concentrated jet of water that has a DL  STR determined by the spells level.  This spell is usefull against fire elementals and does double DL to them.

SKY BLAST
This spell creates a powerful blast of wind and dust that has 
a DL and STR determined by the spells LVL,  This spell is usefull against Air elementals because the dust cuts them to pieces This spell does double DL against air elementals.

ROCK SHATTER
This spell creates a sonic blast that shatters rocks.  The 
caster can blast through mountain or walls depending upon the level of the spell.  This spell is effective against earth elementals as well and against them it has double DL.

POISON NEEDLE SHOT
This spell sends an array of poisoned needles toward its target.  If they successfully hit thier mark they inflict a DL each RND until the spell is successfully defended against.
The amount of damage  and DUR depend upon the spells LVL.

SONIC BOOM
This spell sends out powerfull sound waves that have a DL  and can cause temporary of permanent hearing loss according to the spell's LVL.

FLAME FLIGHT
This spell allows the caster to burst into flames as he flies toward his victim.  The flames inflict a DL according to the spell's LVL.

COLD SEEKER
When this spell is placed on a projectile weapon, arrows, crossbow bolts, spears, or any thrown weapon it will home in on the coldest object within the weapons  giving a + to hit
according to the spell's LVL.

HEAT SEEKER
When this spell is placed on a projectile weapon, arrows, crossbow bolts, spears, or any thrown weapon it will home in on the hottest object within the weapons  giving a + to hit
according to the spell's LVL.
SPIRIT STRIKE
This spell forms an energy sword in the caster's hand.  It will give a + to hit spirits and a DL according to the spell's LVL.


SPIRIT SAP
If successfully cast, this spell will drain ML's from the affected spirit according to the LVL of the spell cast.

SUB ZONE
If successfully cast this spell will create an AOE of freezing cold air that will cause all within the AOE to have -AP, -MP, and has a DL according to the LVL of the spell cast.

DEFENSIVE SPELLS

SANCTUM ARMOR
     This spell protects its recipient from mental, physical, magical and force attacks  DR /4 for each category depending upon the level of the spell.

REFLECT
This spell will cause any magical attacks with a RNK of 1520
 or less, to bounce off of the affected creature and be 
reflected back onto the attacker.  The spell will still carry it's
full effect, on the new target if it isn't successfully defended against.  The original caster of the reflected spell will be at a 
-10 DFR, unless he has successfully detected the reflect 
spell.

FORCYTHIUM BUBBLE 
This spell encases the spell caster in a protective bubble with a DR  that will move as the spell caster does, and will not hinder his attacks. 

STONE SHIELD 
This spell will cause a stone shield to appear in the  spell casters hand.  This shield has a DR and will damage 
any weapon striking it with DL  per strike,for the  duration 
of the spell.

TORNADO GUARD 
This spell creates a small 2' tornado that whirls around 
 the spell caster with a DISARM RNK  and a PARRY RNK .

MAGIC DEFLECTOR SHIELD
This spell enables the spell caster to deflect blows of magical origin, weapons or spells, with a DR 15.  This spell has no
 effect on attacks made by normal weapons. 

RESIST MIND CONTROL
  This spell will enhance the will power of all within the AOE, enabling those effected to better resist mental attacks with a +12 to their will power.

EARTHEN CIRCLE
  This spell creates a 10' high earthen circle, that will surround and protect all within the AOE with a DR for the duration of the spell according to the LVL of the spell cast.

WALL OF WIND
This spell creates a mobile 12'x 12' wall of wind that will keep itself between the attacker and the AOE  This spell also has a DISARM RNK .for any trying to enter the AOE. and a DR 




INVISIBLE WALL 
This spell will create an invisible stationary wall that can 
either form fit an area of up to 30'x 30' or form a 30'x 30' free standing wall with a DR . for the duration of the spell.

ICE DOME
  This spell will place a protective dome of ice 1 foot in radius around the spell caster and has a DR 15, and will move with 
the spell caster.

POWER FLARE
This spell will creates a powerful negate magic field, that will negate all types of magic within the AOE, Personal spells, glyphs, runes, and even magic script, for the duration of the spell.

ANTI-LOCK
  This spell helps repel any spell that has been cast toward 
the recipient of Anti-Lock by adding +10 DFR or +10 WP 
which ever is needed to combat the threatening spell.

ENCHANTED ARMOR 
The recipient of this spell will be covered in a reddish glow
 that will cover it's body from head to toe and defend against force and magical attacks with a DR 24 for the spells DUR.  This spell does not effect regular physical attacks or mental  attacks.

MAGNETIC CYCLONE
This  spell creates a cyclone that can be directed  for it's duration by the spell caster within the AOE.  This cyclone attracts metal objects with a disarm rank  The collected weapons, and occasionally armor or other metal objects are returned to the spell caster at the end of the spell's duration.  This spell has no damage level. 

VANISH
This spell causes the affected creature to completely disappear without a trace.  The affected creature can 
neither be detected or harmed for the duration of this spell
 nor can he attack or cast other spells.

WIND CIRCLE
  This spell creates a swirling circle of air around the AOE 
with  a DR.  This is a stationary spell and does not 
move with the spell caster.  An attacker within the AOE must defend against being disarmed by this spell's 15 disarming 
rank.

ARMOR ENHANCE
     The caster of this spell will increase his armor's ability to protect with a DR according to the LVL of the spell cast.

SPIKE ENHANCEMENT
This spell causes 1 to 2 inch long spikes to emerge from 
the surface of the recipient of this spell with a DR 12 and a 
DL 3.

FIRE CIRCLE 
This spell forms a stationary circular wall of flames around 
the AOE. The spell has a DR 15 as well as a DL 15. 

FIRE SPHERE
This spell forms a 2' sphere of fire  that floats around the 
spell caster, parrying both physical and magical attacks. +15  DFR for the duration of the spell. 


WATER CIRCLE    
 This spell surrounds the AOE with a wildly splashing waves 
of water with a DR 15. This is a stationary spell and does not move with the spell caster.
 This spell will also cause damage to Fire Elementals within 
the AOE, DL 12 per RND. This will last for the duration of the spell or until the Fire Elemental escapes the circle.

EMBER SHIELD 
   This spell creates a shield of glowing embers that has a DR  12.  It will also damage the strength of any weapon striking it with a DL of 12, every time the weapon strikes the shield for 
the duration of the spell.

GRANITE TOUCH
  This spell will turn the affected creature into stone.  The creature will not be able to attack or cast spells for the 
duration of the spell or until the spell has been successfully defended against.    The affected creature will also have a 
+50 DR for the duration.

FIRE WALL
This spell places a 50' by 50' wall of fire around the victim
This is a stationary spell and does not move with the spell caster.Water Elementals within the AOE, DL 18 per RND. This will last for the duration of the spell or until the Water 
Elemental escapes the circle by successfully defending 
against the spell.  The DUR of this spell is 1 Turn.

RUBBER SOLE
If successfully cast this spell will repel a ram, strike or attack with a blunt or non cutting weapon at 50 DR.  The spell will 
then rebound the blow toward the attacker and can either
 throw the attacker off balance or strike him with his own 
blow depending upon how well the attacker defends against
the spell.

WATER RINGS
This spell will form swirling rings of water around the spell 
caster With an AOE and a DR.  The rings also have a Disarm Rank and will move with the spell caster for the duration of
the spell.

SHIMMER
For the duration of this spell anytime the spell caster id about 
to be struck by a physical blow he will instantly teleport 4 to 8 feet from the attacker.
   The teleportation, however, is random and the spell caster 
must take care that he is at least 8' away from any solid
object or any other creature or he may materialize in the object and be terminated.


REPEL
If successfully cast, this spell will repel physical and force attacks giving a + to DR for these types of attack

ASBESTOSE SHEILD
This spell will protect the recipient from flames and heat at a DR determined by the spell's LVL.

BATTLE READINESS
This spell protects the recipient from being stunned while in combat.

HEATER
This spell protects the recipient from the effects of cold.
at a DR  to cold determined by the spell's LVL.


FIRE QUENCH
This spell will protect all within the AOE against the effects of both normal and magical fire and heat with a DR determined by the spell's LVL.

HOT SPOT
This spell will protect all within the AOE against the effects of both normal and magical cold with a DR determined by the spell's LVL.

SPIRIT SHIELD
This spell protects the recipient from the attacks of spirits and quasi-spirits with a DR determined by the spell's LVL.

SAFE HAVEN
This spell will protect all within the AOE against the attacks of spirits and quasi- spirits with a DR determined by the spell's LVL.

COMBAT ENHANCEMENT

FASBARK SHIELD
This spell will place a protective shield around a weapon or other object, with a DR . This spell will not effect any living creature or figurine.

FEATHER WEIGHT  
  This spell will cause the effected weapon to become very 
light, and to move faster than it would normally, reducing the attack points needed to use that weapon by 4.

BOOMERANG
This spell will cause an effected weapon that has been 
thrown within a 50' RNG to return to the spell casters hand.

LIGHTENING STRIKE  
  This spell will make the affected party move faster, thus adding 5 AP's per RND to the spell's recipient attack, for the duration of the spell.

ROOTS OF TRIPPING 
This spell creates hundreds of grabbing roots that both creep along the ground and reach up to 10' into the air to grab the it victim.. These roots will cause any within the AOE to become entangled costing them  - AP for the duration of the spell, or
 it is successfully defended against.  (it takes 1 RND to traverse 6' of roots)

SURE STRIKE
When placed on a weapon the the weilder's OFR  for  that weapon will increase according to the level of the spell.

INCREASE VELOCITY
This spell increases the speed at which a projectile travels. ie. spears, arrows and thrown weapons adding to the range 
and adding to the weapons DL.  The range of and DL 
increases according to the spells level.  This spell can effected more than one projectile per RND by touching the projectiles
to be effected.

ARMS OF ENTANGLEMENT
This spell sends a pair of enchanted arms toward its target. 
 If successfully cast these arms will wrap around the victim 
and squeeze the victim absorbing its HLT points every RND 
for the DUR of the spell or it successfully defended against.
The victim's ability to attack or cast spells is not impaired by this spell.  The amount of HLT can be transferred to the caster 
at the same rate they are absorbed.  The amount depends on the level of the spell.  

WIND BOLAS
Wiith this spell the caster can hurl a bolas made of wind to entangle his target.  If successfully cast, the target will loose MP every RND and be unable to physically attack for the spell's DUR or it is successfully defended against.

VORTEX
This spell will allow the spell caster and all those who wish to enter the Vortex within the spell's duration.  
  This spell is only effective in a Brew or Puzzle Realm
and creates an immediate exit from the Brew or Puzzle Realm that it is cast in. The Spell Caster can not, however,
determine which exit those using the Vortex will arrive at. 
Once the vortex is entered it can not be exited until the end of its DUR.

POWER CORD 
This spell creates a cord made of energy that will lash out
 and cling to it's target draining - ML per RND, for the 
duration of the spell or it has been successfully defended against. 

REPLAY  
This spell allows the spell caster and all those who
 participated in the effected RND, to replay the RND. This negates the results of the effected round, replacing them  
with those of the Replay.

WEAPON MEND
This spell will  Temporarly mend any type of normal weapon 
for the duration of the spell only.  This spell will not mend magical weapons.

MAGIC WEAPON GLUE
This spell will temporarly repair a magical weapon for the duration of the spell.  This spell will not mend normal 
weapons.

DOMINATION AND CONTROL

SANDMAN   
This spell causes a wildly scattered spray of sand to fly 
from the spell casters hands toward the target(s) and if 
successfully cast, the victim (s) will be put to sleep for
the duration of the spell unless it is successfully 
defended against.  This has the same effect as sandman 1 
with a longer range and the ability to affect more creatures.     
MIND SCRAMBLE
 This spell has a mentally disruptive effect on beasts with an intelligence of 30 or  less, that are within the AOE and will cause them to fight among themselves for the DUR of the spell.

BEAST SPEAK
 This spell allows the spell caster to converse with the 
affected creature for the duration of the spell. The knowledge 
of these creatures  may be little to extensive, depending on 
the intelligence of the beast.
 
LAUGH  
This spell allows the spell caster to produce an intimidating Laugh. Those within the AOE must make a saving throw or be frightened away.  This spell is only effective 1 time at the beginning of each combat round each one that makes their saving throw will not be  affected by that spell caster again 
until the spell  caster has reached a higher level.    




ROAR  
This spell allows the spell caster to produce an intimidating 
roar . Those within the AOE must make a saving throw or be frightened away.  This spell is only effective 1 time at the beginning of each combat round each one that makes their saving throw will not be  affected by that spell caster again
 until the spell  caster has reached a higher level.    
FOG OF SMOTHERING
By using this spell the caster covers the AOE with a thick bluish black fog.  Anyone within the AOE except the caster must defend against sleep at a - to BER.  Once asleep the affected creature will either remain asleep for the spell's DUR 
or may be awakened by successfully defending against the 
spell at a - BER.  The effect on the BER depends on the spell's LVL.

COMMANDER
If successfully cast this spell will enable the caster to mentally control 1 beast  and get it to do the bidding of the caster for 
the duration of the spell.

HOLD FAST
This spell will cause 25 force sphears to fly toward the 
target.  If the spheres find their mark they will pin the victim 
with a STR RNK  determined by the spells LVL.  The affected creature will loose AP and MP untill it is effectively defended against or the DUR of the spell.

MIND CONTROL
This spell attacks the WP of its target.  If not successfully defended against the caster will be able to make suggestions 
or control the action of the victim for the duration of the spell.

MIND MELD
This spell allows the caster to enter the mind of another creature.  He will know all that the affected creature knows at the moment of the successful casting of the spell.

IMPRESS IMMAGE
This spell allows the caster to  mentaly communicate an image or mental picture to the mind of the recipient.

ASSUME PHYSIQUE
This spell allows the caster to take over the phpsical form 
of the spells target. while keeping his own attributes and 
memories.

PARALYZE
This spell will paralyze 1 creature taking away its ability to attack, cast spells or move unless successfully defended against.

SCREECH
This spell allows the spell caster to produce a high pitched screech that reduces the WP of those within the AOE.   This spell is only effective 1 time at the beginning of each combat round each one that makes their saving throw will not be  affected by that spell caster again until the spell  caster has reached a higher level.  

SUMMON WATER ELEMENTAL
This spell enables the caster to summon and control a Water Elemental whose power is equal to LVL of the spell cast. 

SUMMON FIRE ELEMENTAL
This spell enables the caster to summon and control a Fire Elemental whose power is equal to LVL of the spell cast. 



SUMMON AIR ELEMENTAL
This spell enables the caster to summon and control an Air Elemental whose power is equal to LVL of the spell cast. 

SUMMON EARTH ELEMENTAL
This spell enables the caster to summon and control an Earth Elemental whose power is equal to LVL of the spell cast. 

SUMMON SPIRIT
This spell enables the caster to summon and control a Spirit  whose power is equal to LVL of the spell cast. 

BANISH SPIRIT
This spell enables the caster to a Spirit whose power is 
equal to LVL of the spell cast. 

HYPNOTIC GAZE
If successfully cast this spell will cause any creature who is caught in the casters gaze.  If not successfully defended against the caster will be able to plant a suggestion in the 
mind of the affected creature.  This suggestion may be 
instant or set to be triggered by a trigger word at anytime in 
the future.


UTILITY SPELLS

WIND GRAPPLER
This spell will send a magical grappling hook and wind rope 
from the spell casters hand, stopping either as it strikes a 
solid object or reaches the end of it's range.   The wind rope
 will become rigid and support up to 1 1/2 tons for the spell's duration, and can be used to either bridge a gap or to go up, 
as it needs no solid stop to grab on to.

COMPASS SENSE
  This spell will enable the spell caster to determine correctly, the direction that he is facing or traveling in. He can do this in any terraine, or under any circumstance other than a negate magic spell. 

INVISIBILITY
  This spell will cause the recipiant to become invisible, giving him a +10 OFR and +10 DFR as well as + 40 STEALTH RNK. 

OBJECT SHRINK
   This spell enables the spell caster to reduce the size of a non-living object wieghing up to 400 lbs. by 75%.  The shrunken object may be stored indefinatly, and reconstituted at any time. (see Recinstitute 
SP-146)

ASCEND / DESCEND 
This spell allows the spell caster to either ascend or descend through the air,either straight up or down 10' per RND.  

RECONSTITUTE OBJECT
  This spell allows the spell caster to restor an item that was shrunken by SP-145 (Object Shrink) to its original size.

MOVE OBJECT
  This spell allows the spell caster to move a non-living object weighing up to 500lbs. from up to 20' away.  The object can 
be moved in any direction up to 6'PER RND. 



DISPEL DARKNESS  
This spell will dispell darkness casused by magic, and will 
allow all within the AOE,  to see normally, for the duration of
 the spell, and is  centered on the spell caster and will move with him.

POISON ENHANCEMENT
  This spell will increase the DL of a poison to +50 per RND
for the next 8 RND.and +50 for every RND that it is prolonged.

DEACTIVATE SPELL 
This spell has the same effect as Deactivate Spell 1 with a larger AOE, and now has a longer range.

SENTRY
This spell will set up an invisible 50' perimeter around the spell caster for 3 turns.  If the perimeter is broken an alarm will sound alerting any within the perimeter.

WATER STRIDER
  This spell enables the recipient to walk or run normally on the surface of a liquid for the duration of the spell.

BREATHE WATER
This spell will enable the recipient to breathe water as if it 
were air, for the duration of the spell

 TOKEN HOLD
 This spell creates a magical bag that acts like a Token magnet, drawing all tokens toward it from up to 50' away.

BATTERING RAM
  This spell creates a 2000 lb battering ram made of 
forcythium, having a DL 24. It has 4 handles, 2 on each side, and may be held by 2 to 4 creatures.  The WDL of the individuals who are using the battering ram are to be added 
to the DL of the battering ram for a total DL.

BRIDGE OF FORCE
This spell creates a bridge  made of blue light energy to appear at the spell casters designated position, spanning 50' and carry up to 2 tons at one time.
 
THE ILLUSION
This spell will create any illusion that the spell caster desires, however, this spell has no physical effects what so ever, it merely creates the illusion.

OBJECT  SPEAK
This spell allows the spell caster to converse with the 
affected object for the duration of the spell. The knowledge 
of these objects  may be very limited, probably to the 

PHAZE
This spell changes a corporal creature into a noncorporal creature, along with all that it carries, 
allowing it to pass through solid objects, (doors,walls, rock, etc.).  The weight limit of this spell is 1 ton, including the creature itself.  A creature effected by this spell can not be harmed by regular weapons, only magic, quasi spirits, or 
spirits.
  WARNING! if a creature has not rematerialized 
outside a solid object before the end of the spell's duration it will be terminated, and a referee will claim it.

ANTI-LITE  
  This spell absorbs all the light within the AOE, including  
magical light, but does not effect the light's source or the spell caster, who can see normally.  This spell centers on the spell caster and will move with him for the duration of the spell. This spell causes any one within the AOE, other      
than the spell caster, to have a - 6 to DFR.       

FLOAT
 This spell will allow the recipient to walk or run while 
hovering 1' above any liquid or solid, horizontal surface.  The effected party can move normally without making foot fall sounds for the duration of the spell.        

WALL WALK
This spell allows the effected party to walk or run
normally on any solid surface at any angle, including upside down, for the duration of the spell.

GLOW ROD
This spell causes a glowing rod to appear in the spell casters hand that will illuminate a 12' diameter area for the duration of the spell. 

OPEN    
This spell has the same effect as pick lock training
at rank 9 and will automatically open the object if the spell has been successfully cast upon it. 

SURE FIRE
This spell will instantly light a fire, torch orany other object that will naturally burn.

CANINE FORM
This spell allows the caster to asume the shape of a large 
dog that is approximatly 4 feet high at the shoulder and walks on all four legs.  In addition to his own attributes the caster will also have heightened hearing and smell with a + to his tracking and MPs.

FELINE FORM
This spell allows the caster to asume the shape of a large cat that is approximatly 4 feet high at the shoulder and walks on all four legs.  In addition to his own attributes the caster will also have night vision and a + to stealth, area sense and 
MPs.

AWAKEN
This spell will awaken 1 creature who has been magicaly put 
to sleep.

PROJECT AWARENESS
This spell allows the caster to project his awareness to all within the AOE.  It will also add a + to the caster's PER for the spell's duration.  Only magical defenses can provent the 
caster from knowing the location of or presence of any object 
of creature within the AOE.  This incluudes invisible and hidden items.

FIRE MELD
This spell allows the affected creature to become one with 
fire.  The affected creature can only be detected by magical means but will loose all attack, casting and mobility points for the duration of the spell.  However the caster remains totally aware of his surroundings and can hear, see,and use all 
senses at their normal RNKs.



PLANT MELD
This spell allows the affected creature to become one with 
trees. grass or any vegetation.  The affected creature can 
only be detected by magical means but will loose all attack, casting and mobility points for the duration of the spell.  However the caster remains totally aware of his surroundings and can hear, see,and use all 
senses at their normal RNKs.

WATER MELD
This spell allows the affected creature to become one with 
water.  If the caster melds with a river, stream or other 
moving water, he cannot control its course.The affected 
creature can only be detected by magical means but will 
loose all attack, casting and mobility points for the duration of the spell.  However the caster remains totally aware of his surroundings and can hear, see and use all senses at their normal RNKs.

EARTH MELD
This spell allows the affected creature to become one with 
earth or rocks.  The affected creature can only be detected
by magical means but will loose all attack, casting and mobility points for the duration of the spell.  However the caster 
remains totally aware of his surroundings and can hear, see
and use all senses at their normal RNKs.

ANIMATE
This spell allows the caster to animate a non-living object weighing up to 500 lbs.  The object will then do the casters biding.  The affected object can not alter its shape, form arms 
or legs etc.

REANIMATE
This spell allows the caster to reanimate a dead creature weighing up to 500 lbs.  The creature will then do the bidding 
of the caster.  The creature will retain the attributes, statisticsetc. it had when it was living.

ALTER SIZE
This spell will increase or decrease the size of one creature 
by 40% per casting.  However, this does not effect any of the recipients attributes or ranks.  This spell will not work on objects.

ALTER WEIGHT
This spell will increase or decrease the weight of a creature
 by 40% per casting.  The affected creature's attributes effected by weight will be altered according to the level of the spell.  
This spell will work on objects as well as creatures.

TRANSPORT CREATURE
This spell will allow the caster to move 1 creature weighing 
up to 3 tons 10 feet per RND in any direction he chooses.

ACID DRILL
This spell causes a small stream of acid to come from the spell casters hand.  It will burn into metal, wood, stone or any non-living material.  The substance has no effect on living flesh or figurines.  This spell is particularly usefull in opening stubborn locks.

PHAZE PICK
This spell places the affected creatures hands and fore arm 
and any object they hold  in a state of phaze.  This allows the caster to reach through clothing, doors, chests, etc.




DETECT MAGIC
This spell allows the caster to detect any usage of magic 
within the AOE.  He will not be able to determine the sourse 
or type of magic used only its presense.

POISON ENHANCEMENT
This spell willwill increase the DL of a poison's effect each 
RND untill it is neutralized or cured.

SUN KILL
This spell will draw all natural light form a 1/2 mile area 
causing total darkness within the AOE for the spell's DUR.

SLOW / ACCELERATE
This spell will either slow or speed up the affected creature either increasing or decreasing its MPs.

SPELL FINDER
This spell will allow the caster to identify 1 spell within the 
AOE but will not tel the caster the type or spell, only its origin.

IDENTIFY MAGIC
This spell will allow the caster to identify 1 spell within the 
AOE but till not tell the caster the source of the magic.

POWER BOOST
This spell eill add to the RNK of the next spell the caster casts.

DISPELL DARKNESS
This spell will dispell darkness caused by magic and will allow all within the AOE to see normally for the duration of the spell.  The spell is cintered on the caster and will move with him.

INVISIBILITY
This spell will cause the recipient to become invisible giving him a + to OFR, DFR, and stealth for the duration of the spell.


OBJECT SHRINK
This spell enables the caster to reduce the size and weight or a non-living object  by 75% per casting.  The shrunken object may be stored indefinately until it is reconstituted. (see Reconstitute)
This spell does not work on living creatures or figurines

RECONSTITUTE OBJECT
This spell allows the caster to restore an item that was shrunken by Object Shrink to its original size.

MOVE OBJECT
This spell allows the caster to meov a nmon-living object weighing up to 500 lbs from up to 20 feet away in any 
direction the caster chooses.  The duration of this spell is 1 RND and must be recast if the caster wishes to continue to move the object.  This spell does not work on living creatures 
or figurines. 

MOSSES SYNDROM
This spell allows the caster to part the waters of a river, lake 
or pond.  The AOE is determined by the spells LVL.

GALE
This spel creates a strong but controlable wind that can be used to move ships or air ships.  The spell can also be used to cause confusion by driving dust or sand storms.

BEAST FORM  
Allows the caster to assume the shape of any beast as long 
as it is equal to but does not exceed the beasts level.
SPIRIT FORM
Allows the caster to assume the form of a spirt with power
equal to 1/2 the the LVL of the spell. 

DAZZLE 
This spell forms an array of flashing lights within the AOE causing a strobe like effect.  Any creature within the AOE that depends on vision will be at a - to his OFR and DFR while the spell is in effect.

FISTS OF FOE
This spell creates a pair of independant hands to apperar as 
the casters side.  For the DUR of the spell, these hands will do anything normal hands could do and will preform any task the caster assigns within a 50' AOE.  They may hold and use a  weapon .  The weapon will be used at the casters  OFR but receive  no  WDLThe hands without a weapon will have 
the same DL as the casters own hands.

SHADOW DANCE
This spell creates moving pattern of grey and black shadows mimicing shadows of trees blowing in the wind and will give 
the recipient a +to camouflage in the dark.

CLOAKING 
This spell cloaks the caster in field that negates attempts to locate him using all sensory and magic means at 1/4 the LVL
 of the spell's LVL.

TELEPORT
This spell will enable to instantly travel to a point equal to or less than the spell's LVL with each LVL = to 500'



DIVING BUBBLE
This spell creates a bubble of air capable of holding up to 
6000 weight units.  The bubble can be made to submerge and has the same DR as the spell's LVL.

WATER RAFT
This spell creates a raft of water that can be ridden like any
other for the DUR of the spell.  The amount of weight that can be carried is = to the LVL of the spell.

FLIGHT
This spell will enable the caster to fly at a rate equal to the 
LVL of the spell.

SOLAR SOAR
This spell allows the caster to appear as a moving cloud 
against the sky giving him a + to camouflage while flying.

SKY DISC
this spell creates a flying blue disk of solidified air on which 
the caster and what he carries can ride.  The distance that 
can be traveled is equal to the LVL of the spell.

AIR RIDE
This spell forms a large carpet of floating clouds that are capeable of carring 1 to 4 creatures.  The distance the cloud can travel is equal to the LVL of the spell.

CRUISE CONTROL
This spell allows a spell caster to predetermine the speed 
and distance of any magicaly formed transportation device. 
ie Sky Disk, Diving Bubble, Flight or any other spell for a DUR equal to the LVL of the spell.

NULL COLD
This spell negates the effects of maagicaly created cold at a  equal to the LVL of the spell.

NULL FLAME
This spell negates the effects of maagicaly created flames or heat at a  equal to the LVL of the spell.

DISPEL FORCE
This spell negates the effects of a force attack at a  LVL 
equal to the LVL of the spell.

BURROW
This spell enables the caster to burrow a hole in dirt at a  LVL 
equal to the LVL of the spell.  The hole will only accomodate any that is equal in size or smaller than the spell caster.

TUNNEL
This spell enables the caster to tunnel a hole in rock at a  LVL 
equal to the LVL of the spell.  The hole will only accomodate any that is equal in size or smaller than the spell caster.
 


TRAINING SUBSTITUTE SPELLS

NAVIGATION MASTER (1)  
  This spell will have the same effect as Land Navigation  

NAVIGATION MASTER (2)
 This spell will have the same effect as Water Navigation training 

NAVIGATION (3)
This spell will have the same effect as Whisper Mist Navigation training 

 NAVIGATION (4)
  This spell will have the same effect as Subterranean  Navigation 

PIN MASTER
  This spell will have the same effect as Pin training 

SLAM MASTER 
  This spell will have the same effect as Slam training

THE CARTOGRAPHER
  This spell will have the same effect as Cartography training 


THE SWIMMER
  This spell will have the same effect as Swimming training 

THE ACROBAT
  This spell will have the same effect as Acrobat training

BOAT MASTER
  This spell will have the same effect as Boating training 

EYE OF THE EAGLE
  This spell will have the same effect as Detect Hidden training 

SILENT WALK MASTER
  This spell will have the same effect as Silent Walk training 

STREET SMART
  This spell will have the same effect as city survival training 


CLOAKING
 This spell will have the same effect as Conceal Object training 

THE PICK POCKET
  This spell will have the same effect as Pick Pocket training 

THE LOCK PICK
  This spell will have the same effect as Lock Pick training   

THE FORGER
  This spell will have the same effect as Forgery training 

CLAY CRAFTER
  This spell will have the same effect as Clay Craft training 

WOOD CRAFTER
  This spell will have the same effect as Wood Craft training   

STONE CRAFTER
  This spell will have the same effect as Stone Craft training 

HERB CRAFTER
  This spell will have the same effect as Herb Craft training 

REED CRAFTER
  This spell will have the same effect as Reed Craft training   


METAL CRAFTER
  This spell will have the same effect as Metal Craft training 

TANNING CRAFTER
  This spell will have the same effect as Tanning Craft training 

GEM CRAFTER
  This spell will have the same effect as Gem Craft training 

THE CARVER
  This spell will have the same effect as Carving training 
 
THE POTTER
  This spell will have the same effect as Pottery training 

THE JEWELER
  This spell will have the same effect as Jewler training 

THE SHIPWRIGHT
  This spell will have the same effect as Shipwright training 

THE INSTRUMENT MAKER
  This spell will have the same effect as Instrument Maker training 

THE WEAVER
  This spell will have the same effect as Weaving training THE 

ARMOR SMITH
  This spell will have the same effect as Armor Maker training 

THE WEAPON SMITH   
This spell will have the same effect as Weaponry training 

THE TAILOR
  This spell will have the same effect as Tailor training 

THE CARPENTER
  This spell will have the same effect as Carpentry training

THE BREWER
  This spell will have the same effect as Brewing training 

THE TRAP MAKER
  This spell will have the same effect as Trap Making training 

THE CARTOGRAPHER
  This spell will have the same effect as Cartography training   

THE RUNE SCHOLAR
  This spell will have the same effect as Runes training 

THE GLYPH SCHOLAR
  This spell will have the same effect as Glyph training   

THE MAGIC SCRIPT SCHOLAR
  This spell will have the same effect as Magic Script training   

THE ARTIFACT SCHOLAR
  This spell will have the same effect as Artifacts training 

MASTER CASTER
  This spell will have the same effect as Casting training 

 PARRY MASTER
  This spell will have the same effect as Parry training 

DISARM MASTER
  This spell will have the same effect as Disarm training 

GUIDED SHOT MASTER
  This spell will have the same effect as Guided Shot training   
CANOPY MASTER
  This spell will have the same effect as Canopy training   

MASTER OF DISGUISE
  This spell will have the same effect as Disguise training THE 

COUNTERFEITER
  This spell will have the same effect as Counterfeiting training 

CAMOUFLAGE MASTER
  This spell will have the same effect as Camouflage training   

TRACKING MASTER
  This spell will have the same effect as Tracking training 

HORSE MASTER
  This spell will have the same effect as Riding training 

ENCHANTED AWARENESS
  This spell will have the same effect as Blind Fighting training 

SAILING MASTER
  This spell will have the same effect as Sailing training 

THE ARCHER
  This spell will have the same effect as Bow training  

BLADE MASTER 1
  This spell will have the same effect as Small or Light Blade training 

CROSS BOW MASTER
  This spell will have the same effect as Cross Bow training 

AXE MASTER
  This spell will have the same effect as Bladed Head training 
BLADE MASTER 2
This spell will have the same effect as Med or Heavy Blade training.

BLADE MASTER 3
This spell will have the same effect as Two Handed Sword training.

SLING MASTER
  This spell will have the same effect as Sling training 

POLE WEAPON MASTER
  This spell will have the same effect as Pole Weapon training 

WHIP MASTER
  This spell will have the same effect as Whip training 

BALL & CHAIN MASTER
  This spell will have the same effect as Ball & Chain training 

NET MASTER
  This spell will have the same effect as Sling training 

IRON HAND
  This spell will have the same effect as Strike training 

THROW MASTER
  This spell will have the same effect as Throw training   

BLUNT WEAPON MASTER
  This spell will have the same effect as Blunt Weapon training 

SHIRKIN MASTER
  This spell will have the same effect as Shirkin training 

SAND HILL
  This spell will have the same effect as Camouflage training for the desert 

LEAPING
     This spell allows the spell caster to leap up to 37 feet in any direction.

IMPRESS OBJECT MASTER
  This spell will have the same effect as Impress Object 
training 

TRAP DISARMAMENT MASTER
  This spell will have the same effect as Disarm Trap training 

CHAMELEON
  This spell will have the same effect as Self Conceal training 

THE RUNE SCHOLAR
  This spell will have the same effect as Runes training 

WITHOUT A TRACE
  This spell will have the same effect as Conceal Tracks training 

STEALTH MASTER
  This spell will have the same effect as Stealth training 

SQUIRREL CLIMB
  This spell will have the same effect as Climbing training 

ROPE WALK
  This spell will have the same effect as Tight Rope training 

FLEX
  This spell will have the same effect as Contortion training 

THE RUNNER
  This spell will have the same effect as Running training 

SCHOLASTIC TRAINING ENHANCEMENT
 This spell will increase the rank of 1 Scholastic training for the duration of the spell.

UNARMED COMBAT ENHANCEMENT
This spell will increase the rank of 1 unarmed combat training or the duration of the spell.

MANEUVERING AND TECHNIQUES TRAINING ENHANCEMENT   
  This spell will increase the rank of 1 Maneuvering & 
Technique training  for the duration of the spell.

WEAPONS TRAINING ENHANCEMENT
  This spell will increase the rank of 1 Weapons training  
for the duration of the spell.

MAGIC TRAINING ENHANCEMENT
  This spell will increase the rank of 1 Magic training  for 
the duration of the spell.
 This spell will increase the rank of 1 Outdoor & Survival 
training  for the duration of the spell.

RUNE CRAFT TRAINING ENHANCEMENT
  This spell will increase the rank of 1 Rune Craft training  for the duration of the spell.

ARTISAN CRAFT TRAINING ENHANCEMENT
  This spell will increase the rank of 1 Artisan Craft training for the duration of the spell.

ATHLETIC TRAINING ENHANCEMENT
  This spell will increase the rank of 1 Athletic training  for the duration of the spell.

SUBTRAFUGE TRAINING ENHANCEMENT
  This spell will increase the rank of 1 Subtrafuge training for the duration of the spell.

OUTDOOR & SURVIVAL TRAINING ENHANCEMENT
This spell will increase the rank of 1Outdoor or Survival 
training for the duration of the spell.

REDUCE ATRIBUTE
  The caster of this spell can reduce the atribute rank of his choice. The party struck by this spell will loose 10 PTS per RND for the duration of the spell, or it is successfully defended against.                                            
  The affected attribute RNK will return to normal when the spell has ended + or - any damage that occured while the spell was in effect.

BEARING ENHANCEMENT
  This spell will increase the bearing rank by 3 per RND for the duration of the spell only.  When the spell has ended the  bearing attribute will return to it's original rank, + or - any effects that were incurred by the  spell's recipient while the spell was in effect. 





INTELLIGENCE ENHANCEMENT
  Thisspell will increase the  intelligence rank of the recipient by 3 PTS per RND for the duration of the spell.   When the spell has ended the the attribute will return to its original rank, + or - any affects that were incurred while the 
spell was in effect.     

STRENGTH ENHANCEMENT 
  This spell will increase the                                           strength rank by 3 per RND for the duration of the spell only.  When the spell has ended the  strength attribute will return to it's original rank, + or - any affects that were incurred by the spell's recipient while the spell was in effect.     

EVOCATION ENHANCEMENT
  This spell will increase the                                           evocation rank by 3 per RND for the duration of the spell only.  When the spell has ended the  evocation attribute will return to it's original rank, + or - any affects that were incurred by the spell's recipient while the spell was in effect.

HEALTH ENHANCEMENT
  This spell will increase the                                           health rank by 3 per RND for the duration of the spell only.  When the spell has ended the  health attribute will return to it's original rank, + or - any affects that were incurred by the spell's recipient while the spell was in effect.     

SPEED ENHANCEMENT   

  This spell will increase the                                        speed rank by 3 per RND for the duration of the spell only.  When the spell has ended the  speed attribute will return to it's original rank, + or - any affects that were incurred by the spell's recipient while the spell was in effect. 


PERCEPTION ENHANCEMENT
  This spell will increase the                                            perception RNK by 3 per RND for the duration of the spell only.  When the spell has ended the perception attribute will return to it's original RNK, + or - any affects that were incurred by the spell's recipient while the spell was in effect.     
 
ENHANCE ATTRIBUTE   
   This spell allows the spell caster to enhance any one of the 7 attributes that he wishes. raising that attribute by 10 for the 
duration of the spell, 
   The affected attributes' RNK will return to normal when the spell has ended, + or - any effects incurred within the  spell 
was in effect.

REDUCE HEALTH  
This spell will reduce the health rank of any, creature that is struck by it by 5 per RND for the duration of the spell, or  it is successfully defended against.  
  When the spell has ended, the affected  attribute will return 
to it's original rank, + or - any other effects incurred durring 
the spell.
REDUCE SPEED
  This spell will reduce the speed rank of any, creature that is struck by it by 5 per RND for the duration of the spell, or it is successfully defended against.  
  When the spell has ended, the affected  attribute will return 
to it's original rank, + or - any other effects incurred durring 
the spell.


REDUCE PERCEPTION  
  This spell will reduce the perception rank of any creature 
that is struck by it by 5 per RND for the duration of the spell
 or it is successfully defended against.  
  When the spell has ended, the affected  attribute will return to it's original rank, + or - any other effects incurred durring 
the spell.

REDUCE EVOCATION  
  This spell will reduce the evocation rank of any creature that is struck by it by 5 per RND for the duration of the spell, or  it is successfully defended against.  
  When the spell has ended, the affected  attribute will return to it's original rank, + or - any other effects incurred durring the spell.

REDUCE INTELLIGENCE  
  This spell will reduce the intelligence rank of any creature that is struck by it by 5 per RND for the duration of the spell, or it is successfully defended against.  
When the spell has ended, the affected  attribute will return to it's original rank, + or - any other effects incurred durring the spell.

REDUCE BEARING  
  This spell will reduce the bearing rank of any creature that is struck by it by 5 per RND for the duration of the spell, or it is successfully defended against.  
When the spell has ended, the affected  attribute will return to it's original rank, + or - any other effects incurred durring the spell.
        
REDUCE STRENGTH  
  This spell will reduce the strength rank of any creature that is struck by it by 5 per RND for the duration of the spell, or it is successfully defended against.  
When the spell has ended, the affected  attribute will return to it's original rank, + or - any other effects incurred durring the spell.




ABBR.

ATR
RNK
STR
HLT
SPD
PER
INT
BER
EVO
LCK
STAT
DFR
OFR
AP
MP
DR
CR
ML
CP
WP
WGT
MAX
WDL
WR
DL
WS
RND
TRN


GLOSSARY

 
    COST LISTS
    

SERVICES

SPELLS                               250 POSTS PER LVL.             RANGE                                100 POSTS PER MILE ENCHANTMENT                   100 POSTS
ENRICHMENT                      100 POSTS PER LVL.



                                  BEASTS
MONDAR HAWKS                             1,000 POST                KALETTI                                          30,000 POSTS                FEREZ                                              2,000 POSTS


                                TOKENS

     After a beast has been killed it can be turned into a
token, a small coin, by saying "token". The insignia of its species will be imprinted one the token and may be taken to a bounty exchange or to a slaver for redemption of posts.


                                BOUNTIES

     Bounties on the wild and vicious beasts of Mythos are a good way for a guardian to make a few extra posts as well as gain experience points and possibly even fame.  The amount of the bounty on each beast is predetermined by the dificulty in slaying the beast or the value of it to a slaver.  After the beast has been killed it can be turned into a token by saying "token". The insignia of its species will be imprinted one the token and may be taken to a bounty exchange or to a
slaver for redemption.

                    THE BOUNTY EXCHANGE          7-5-92

     The bounty exchange of Mythos is the place to go to exchange tokens for posts. The Collectors, as the proprietors are known by, are the only ones in Mythos, other than a slaver, who can restore tokens to beasts.( or collect the figurines of the opponents for proper storage.)

            MONSTER POST VALUE AND LEVEL

The 7 atribute levels \ 7 = level 50 posts per level

MODIFIERS:  +1 for every DL LVL
            +1 for every DR LVL
            +5 for area sense
            +2 for infra vision or telescopic vision
            +6 for X-Ray vision
            +1 for every 3 RNK's of Poison
            +10 for every innate spell
            Total of all spell ranks / 3
            Total of all training ranks / 3
            Total of all poison ranks / 3

MONSTER POST VALUE /7 = MONSTERS LEVEL



TROSS-        large albatross type beast that lives almost
              exclusively on open water, however they can
              spend short periods of time on land or other
              dry surfaces.

                     ABBREVIATIONS

STR.       Strength                     PR.       Per Rating
SPD.       Speed                       LVL.      Level
INT.         Intelligence                TCH.     Touch
BER.       Bearing                      INST.    Instant
HLT.        Health                       SPEC.   Special
PER.       Perception                 PTS.      Points
EVO.       Evocation
OFR.       Offence Rank
DR.         Damage Resistance
WS.        Weapon Strength
AP.         Attack Points
DFR.       Defense Rank
DL.         Damage Level
TS.         Target Score
ML.         Magic Level
DUR        Duration
AOE.       Area Of Effect
CP.         Casting Points
PC.         Prolonged Cost
RNG.      Casting Range
RD.         Result Difference
RNK.       Rank
CRT.       Creature
RND.       Round
OBJ.       Object

    







            
LISTS ETC. FOR MYTHOS                pg. 2
                      NAMES
KUMAR
MYLEK
TETZ
CASSADA
FROBASE
MARISSA
REMA
JAYANTHA
FALCOMER
TAORMINA
MODARAI
TATERSAL
JECHURA
METOFF
TOSCANO
KOLTAY
KARANNI
GELBRON
BADIK
LANGHALS
TARTEK
DURKIN
                   COMMON ITEMS                 7-4-92
RUBBER BERRIES 
These berries, when used by an  artisan skilled in herb crafts can create a weapon or other object that can be fired at +100 force. ie. arm bows.

SPONGE TREE
    Leaves are sponges that soak up all the water that they can hold.  Used in making armor because of its fibrous nature it is hard to cut.

AIR SHIPS
    Lighter than air sailing vessels that the air ship porters use for the transport of  their goods and passengers.  They also use them to guard land based caravans.  The portion that holds the air is made of
special reeds.

RED BARK TREE        
   The red thorny bark of these trees closely          resembles a scarlet spiketors skin.  If a scarlet spiketor roots or attempts to coonceal it self at the base of one of these trees, the spiketor gets a +10 to hide or camouflage.

FORCITHIUM       
    Rare magical metal, the strongest in all of  Mythos                The small nuggets of this metal are found laying around on the ground, sometimes covering a small area.  Because of it's strength, Forcithium is the preferred metal for the fabrication of weapons and armor. Because of it's magical properties it is also           the best metal to hold a rune and is sought by many artisans for use in making magical items.

GOLDEN REED     
   Golden Reeds grows on the banks of the River Radiance with many maagical properties. Extremely high rune acceptibility +5 to your efforts to plaace a rune on Golden Reed and a +5 to efforts to shape it into its desired form.

STONE WOOD      
   Extremely strong but light weigtht wood,  makes fine         weapons and armor.  Usually worked with special tools embelished with special cutting runes . +1 DFR  + 1 DR.

SLAVERS
    The slavers of Mythos are a race unto themselves.  Their innate ability to bond creatures to another in the form of a familiar makes them unique in Mythos.  They are the only ones who can do this.  The slavers will also purchase tokens from the guardians that they can use as familiars.

      SLAVERS SERVICE COST LIST

SPELLS                          250 POSTS PER LVL.
RANGE                           100 POSTS PER MILE
ENCHANTMENT              1000 POSTS
TRAINING                        100 POSTS PER LEVEL
ATTRIBUTE 
ENHANCEMENT
 
BOUNTIES
     Bounties on the wild and vicious beasts of Mythos are a good way for a guardian to make a few extra posts as well as gain experience points and possibly even fame.  The amount of  the bounty on each beast is predetermined by the difficulty in slaying the beast or the value of it to a slaver.
POSTS
    The money of Mythos is measured in posts.  To start each player rolls 1d100 and adds 50 to his score to determine how many posts he will have to spend on a beginning weapon and supplies.  To gain more posts the PC will have to slay beasts, and collect the bounties offered for them, find  treasures, or receive posts from merchants who sometimes hire guardians to escort caravans.  10 Posts weigh 1 lb.

TOKENS
    After a beast has been killed it can be turned into a
token, a small coin, by saying "token". The insignia of its species will be imprinted one the token and may be taken to a bounty exchange or to a slaver for redemption of posts.  A token's weight depends upon what beast the token reoresents.It costs 200 posts per level of beast for a PC to have a slaver resurect a token for use as a familliar.

THE BOUNTY EXCHANGE              
   The Bounty Exchange is the place to take tokens to exchange them for posts,  almost every large city has at least one.

THE COLLECTORS   
   This unique race of Mythos, operate The Bounty Exchange of Mythos is the place to go to exchange tokens for posts.  Slavers often will buy special tokens form the collectors to transform into familiars.

NOTE TO ME: 7 attribute levels \ 7 = level 50 posts per level
            
 FIGURINES
    When a level one guardian is killed, the Referees come and turn the fallen guardian into a figurine.  The Referee then takes the figurine to the training center of its race to begin anew, from an uneducated youth.  The Guardian can then reenter the game as a novas guardian.

YELLOW JACKET RULES
     The Yellow Jacket Club is a universal pub that can and does crop up in the strangest places.  It some times will appear in a brew or in a town or even on a deserted country road or a tree.  You will know when you have found theis pub by the insignia of a large bumblebee above the door.  The GM may decide that the game needs a pic up or a change from the 
normal flow, he then can insert a  Yellow Jacket adventure.  The rules for the Club are as follows:

          1. Any one entering the club must leave all weapons at the check in.  NO EXCEPTIONS

          2. The PC's are required to put on and wear the yellow and black striped jacket that they will  be            given at the weapons check desk.

          3. As soon as the PC's put on the jackets and enters the club their weapons are returned to them.


FAME                   6-15-92

     In the game of Mythos, a character's fame is measured in fame points.  The player collects these fame points as he battles beasts or opponents, or just does a favor for a merchant or an average citizen. Both Guardian races, Fay's as well as Pompars' get fame points.  These points can be a real asset as the game progresses, discounts from merchants, free
meals and board are just a few of their perks that a famous guardian can enjoy.  On the other hand if one steals from the people, harms, or is abusive to merchants and gets caught) can become infamous.  Under these conditions a PC may not want to or be able to go to a town, as locals may be prone to be most inhospitable possibly doing them physical
harm, denying room or board or just refusing to give the infamous guardian valuable information that he would have easily gained by being famous.
     Fame points may be gained or lost in a number of ways. One way is to preform bravely to gain points or be cowardly to loose them.  Destroying the opponents forces or traveling with a merchant caravan to protect it from raids, will help you attain points as will doing a favor for a member of one of the common races.  Abusing or harming the common races or stealing from caravans or shopkeepers (and getting caught at
it) or refusing to help a fellow guardian could result in the loss of fame points.  All these plus any decisions that the GM makes are all ways to affect a PC's fame points.
     Fame points may also be gained or lost by the PC' death. When a PC that is level 2 or higher dies, 1 or 2 times the PC may be awarded fame points for bravely facing the enemy and falling in battle, but if the PC is killed for a 3rd or more times, they will loose fame points.

                 1st. death + 5 to fame
                 2nd. death + 5 to fame
                 3rd  death - 15 to fame
                 4th or more - 20 to fame

     A PC may also gain fame points by having adventured with more than one party or by going on a solo adventure.  The amount of fame gained by a PC in this way is determined bythe GM.
     A PC may have a plus or minus to there fame when they are in a specific area.  For example, if a famous, or infamous character is near its home town or in an area where he either preformed an admiral task or robbed, it would receive a + or - to it's individual fame, for the time that the PC spends in this area.  Upon leaving the area the PC's fame points would return to its former number of points.  The
number of points a PC can get will vary from area to area and will be determined by the GM.
     Fame points may also vary + or - when a PC is dealing with a specific individual.  For example, A PC can favorably or unfavorably impress an individual with its actions.  A PC may have made an excellent leadership call or risked his life for an individual.  When the PC deals with this individual a + will be added to the character's fame.  The number of
points will return to there former number when dealing with any one else.  On the other hand, an infamous PC may have beaten or cheated an individual.  This individual may decide to try to kill you while you sleep. The number of points added or subtracted to the individual's fame is determined by the GM.

FAMILIARS                    6-15-92
         At some point the a PC may decide that he of she would like to have a familiar.  It is necessary that the PC be made aware of the many costs involved with one of these creatures both monetary and to the PC' stats.
     The first expense, of course is the beast itself.  The prices usually run between 800 to 30000 posts.  The cost to magically hold these beasts in captivity is high, so is the cost to obtain suitable beasts so all these expenses are passed on to the customer.
     To become a bonded familiar the beast must be magically enchanted to the owner and there is a 100 post enchantment fee for this service.  The new owner and the creature linked mentally and are able to communicate with each other.  The owner can, in this way, give the creature commands, or the creature can join in battle simultaneously with its master,
The beast, however cannot do harm to its master.  The enchantment lasts for life and the familiar will remain loyal to its master for life.
     There are other costs involved with the bonding process that the PC should be made aware of.  At the time of the enchantment the PC must assign health and evocation points to his familiar.  The Points that the PC Assigns to the beast will come from his own health and evocation points and will be transferred to the familiar at the time of bonding.  The PC will recover these points in either 1 full 24 hour day or
by other normal means, potions, magic, etc.  However, there does remain one permanent condition to the bonding process. Should The familiar be killed, the PC will loose the entire amount of health and casting points that he originally assigned to his familiar at the time of bonding. Again the points can be recovered in the normal way, however, this loss
could be very detrimental to a PC engauged  in combat at the time of his familiars death.
     Another cost at the time of bonding is the enrichment cost. For each 1 point the PC wishes to add to his familiars attributes (except health and evocation) costs 100 posts.
     The creatures attributes like those of the PC's can be raised through experience points.  However the bonded familiar can not earn experience points on its' own.  The PC must assign his or her own experience points to the beast to raise any of its' attributes, (except health and evocation) or to advance its training levels.  To advance in anything, the cost to the PC is the same whether he assigns his experience points to himself or his familiar.
     The familiar will take care of its own personal
needs, food, water, etc. And is capable of making simple decisions on it's own.  The ability to make it's own decisions is also an effect of the bonding process.  The beast automatically has an intelligence level of 1 after being bonded.
       If used properly the familiar can be a real asset to his owner, if not, the creature is just an expensive pet.

BREW SHOP
     Each brew has a shop, the same shop. It is run by a single proprietor, the same proprietor.  He appears in every brew and is known only as The Shop Keeper.  He always carries healing potions and poison cures, along with a variety of other supplies and equipment.  The goods vary from brew to brew. 
     For a price, he can usually identify magic items that the PC's can not. He may or may not tell the PC's everything there is to know about the item.
     The shop is also a neutral zone "NO FIGHTING ALLOWED"  the PC's will never be attacked  while in
the shop, nor can they attack another creature here.
     The Shop Keeper never gives PC's information about the brew that they are in or about any creature that dwells within the brew.  This would violate his strict neutrality code.
     The shop is a good resting place for the weary but not for more than an hour.  The Shop Keeper supplies many brews, and is very busy.
     The Shop Keeper is the only other character in mythos, besides the PC himself, that can place a rune on an object. This is done, of course, for a fee, and usually a hefty one.
     The Shop Keeper also buys and sells the figurines of fallen guardians, and may be purchased by either of the guardian races.

REFEREES                 7-4-92
     In the beginning, before the time of sentient, when
Pompar and Fay were creating the Game Board, they mutually decided to create 7 referees to neutrally oversee the plays made in the game.  With equal impute from both Pompar and Fay the five were given the power to make final decisions concerning playing pieces, calling close battles and other aspects of the game that required a neutral party.  The five were created tamper proof, and programed to preform only
their designated tasks.
     One of the many tasks of a referee is to determine the final disposition of a piece that has been killed.  The rules are clear in this matter if the piece has performed as it was supposed to. (Normal)  There are different rules for those pieces that perform in a manner for which they were not designed. (Deviant)

          1.  If a normal piece is at least level 2 it will be
resurrected.
        
           2.  The first time a piece is killed it will loose
all the developmental attribute points that it gained by becoming the level that it was prior to its death.  All combat stats will have to be adjusted to reflect the loss of these points. It will also be awarded +5 to fame for being killed.

          3. The second time a piece looses its life it will
also looses 1 level of experience points and 1 character level. All stats will have to be adjusted to reflect the loss. It will also be awarded +5 to fame for being killed.
          4. The third time a piece looses it's life it will
one level of attributes and experience points as well        as 1 character level.  He will also loose 15 fame points.

          5.  If the piece is killed in a realm not his own,
ie. a guardian is killed in the fairy realm.  It will be resurrected and sent to its own realm.

          6.  If a piece is killed at level one it will be
turned into a life like figurine.  The referees will then take the figurine to the brew shop where it may be purchased by either of the guardian races.  After the figurine has been purchased it may be either restored by its party at a bounty exchange or taken by the opposing side to their realm for removal from the game.
          7.  When a piece has been killed and turned into a figurine and is not in it's own realm, all  the
possessions and equipment of that piece will remain in the that realm and become the property of the victor of the battle.  If the piece is eliminated in it's own realm, all it's equipment and possessions will remain with it.

          8.  In the event of a heroic battle where one
guardian is eliminated by another of considerably less prowesses, the referees will immediately award both fame and experience points to the victor.  The referees will then report to The Speakers of Myth, or The Cult of The Black Pearl, depending on who the victor is, in great detail the heroic battle that their
victorious piece won.  These statistics are then
analyzed by the respective group and used as tactical guides for the training of future guardians.

LOCKS, DOORS, ETC.                6-15-92
     These items will and are to be assigned rating points for their resistance to being opened, moved etc.

 EARTH NODES                  6-15-92
     A spiketor or other plant race must eat.  To do so they must feed on earth nodes.  These are the equivalent of rabbits or other game hunted by other races for food, and may also be purchased in a store like regular food.

SPELLED SOIL                  6-15-92
     Spelled soil is magically enhanced earth that may be mixed with other soil and taken up by plant based races. These soils include heal or any other spell that a plant race may desire.  They may be purchased at the normal outlets for goods.  The cost for Spelled soil is 50 posts per level of spell.

FATHER WEDSGILLS SYNDROME
     Father Wedsgil is a Healer that appears randomly, wandering the realms he may appear any where at any time..

FOOD AND WATER
     All the creatures of Mythos need to consume nourishment and water.  The PC's must consume an amount of nourishment = to it's Weight Rank and drink the same amount or water, each day or loose health points = to the PC's Weight Rnk at the end of each day that the character goes with our food or
water.  These poiints can not be recovered by potions or spells, the PC must eat or drink to recover them.

1 PORTION  OF FOOD WEIGHS 1 LB.

The Accademy can teach new spells, at a cost of:
    MAGUS: 10 experience points for each new spell.
    QUASI: 15 experience points for each new spell.
    WARIORS: 20 experience points for each new spell.

               
           FORMULAS FOR PLAYING A D.W.F. GAME


TARGET SCORE:                  OFR - DFR = TS

TO DEFEND AGAINST              BER RNK +47  SPL RNK-47
ALL SPELLS:                    or APPLICABLE RNK

   MONSTER POST VALUE AND LEVEL

The 7 atribute levels \ 7 = level 50 posts per level

MODIFIERS:  +1 for every DL LVL
            +1 for every DR LVL
            +5 for area sense
            +2 for infra vision or telescopic vision
            +6 for X-Ray vision
            +1 for every 3 RNK's of Poison
            +10 for every innate spell
            Total of all spell ranks / 3
            Total of all training ranks / 3
            Total of all poison ranks / 3

MONSTER POST VALUE /7 = MONSTERS LEVEL





RACES

SILVER RAZILL
PHARAYAN

RACIAL ATTRIBUTE BONUS
      

RACIAL SENSES AND MODIFIERS
VISION   %        HEARING  %            SMELL  %          
WEIGHT            MOVEMENT                 BULK

GUARDIAN ATTRIBUTE BONUS  

GUARDIAN INNATE ABILITIES
   
CHAMPION ATTRIBUTE BONUS  

CHAMOPION INNATE ABILITIES
 
GRAND GUARDIAN ATTRIBUTE BONUS 
 
GRAND GUARDIAN INNATE ABILITIES




SILVER RAZILL TRAINING APTITUDES

BATTLE

ATHLETIC
       

SURVIVAL


SUBVERSIVE
             
RUNE CRAFT 


ARTISAN 


MAGIC

   
SCHOLASTIC

 
DISCIPLINES

SPELL APTITUDE LIST

HEALTH


UTILITY


OFFENSIVE


DEFENSIVE




HAWKTOR 
PHARAYAN
WARRIOR

RACIAL ATTRIBUTE BONUS
STR  5               SPD  15             PER  20    

RACIAL SENSES AND MODIFIERS
VISION   %        HEARING  %            SMELL  %          
WEIGHT            MOVEMENT                 BULK

GUARDIAN ATTRIBUTE BONUS  
STR  5          SPD  5                PER 10

GUARDIAN INNATE ABILITIES
FLIGHT LVL 10
TALONS   18  DL  

CHAMPION ATTRIBUTE BONUS  

CHAMPION INNATE ABILITIES
 
GRAND GUARDIAN ATTRIBUTE BONUS 
 
GRAND GUARDIAN INNATE ABILITIES




HAWKTOR TRAINING APTITUDES

BATTLE

ATHLETIC
       

SURVIVAL


SUBVERSIVE
             
RUNE CRAFT 


ARTISAN 


MAGIC

   
SCHOLASTIC

 
DISCIPLINES

SPELL APTITUDE LIST

HEALTH


UTILITY


OFFENSIVE


DEFENSIVE




OWLIN
PHARAYAN
SPELL CASTER  RUNE LORD  MAGIC SCRIPT

RACIAL ATTRIBUTE BONUS
INT   20        EVO  10         BER  10      

RACIAL SENSES AND MODIFIERS
VISION   %        HEARING  %            SMELL  %          
WEIGHT            MOVEMENT                 BULK

GUARDIAN ATTRIBUTE BONUS  
INT  10        EVO  5          BER  5

GUARDIAN INNATE ABILITIES
NIGHT VISION  LVL 5  
FLIGHT     LVL 5
TALONS  DL  18
  
CHAMPION ATTRIBUTE BONUS  

CHAMPION INNATE ABILITIES
 
GRAND GUARDIAN ATTRIBUTE BONUS 
 
GRAND GUARDIAN INNATE ABILITIES




                       Duration (DUR)

     The duration of a spell is simply how long the effects
of the spell will last. 10 rounds = 1 turn  (10 RND = 1 TRN).


                    Area Of Effect (AOE)

     The area of effect, (AOE) indicates what the spell is
capable of effecting. Self, means that the spell will only
effect the spell caster and no one else.  The spell may
indicate that it can effect 1 or more creature (CRT) these
spells can effect either the spell caster or some other
creature, or creatures Other spells may only effect an object
(OBJ), such as a door, lock, wall, weapon, shield or any
other object the spell caster wishes to cast a spell on.  AOE
may also be indicated in feet, (10').  When a spell has a
number in the AOE this indicates the radius of a spell,
radiating from the point at which it was cast, and forming a
circle around that point.    (show example)


                    Result Difference (RD)

     The result deference (RD) is the number that a PC rolls
over his target score.  For example, if the PC needed to roll
a 43 to hit and rolls a 73 he has an (RD) of 30.  If this
number is the same or higher than the number listed in the
(RD) box then for every point you will use 1 less (ML), in
the casting of that spell.


                                   RUNES                     7-13-92

     A rune is a spell that has been written in a magical
language and formed into an image that is impressed onto an
object.  The original rune may be used many times by being
transferred from object to object with no affect to its
power.

     When a rune is correctly inscribed onto an object that
was designed to hold it, that object will permanently retain
the effect of the spell that was written within the rune.

     There are 2 types of runes in Mythos. The most common
are Artisan runes.  These runes  must be placed on an object
made especially by the runes user and activated each time
that it is to be used.  The other type is a  Permanant rune.
These runes are not as common but may be used by any one who
possesses the object that the rune in inscribed upon and may
not require activation every time that it is used.

     The Shop Keeper, can also inscribe runes on an object.
for a price.

     In order for a PC to place a rune on an object he must
have a rune craft and commplimentary artisan skill for the
object to be inscribed with the rune.  For example if a PC
has the rune craft of metal and the artisan skill of jewelry
he can place a rune on a piece of jewelry he has personally
made from metal, Ie a gold bracelet, or a silver amulet, or
an iron ring.  Another example would be if a PC had the rune
craft of clay and the artisan skill of pottery the PC could
place a rune on a clay pot that he has personally made.

RUNES COST 100 POSTS PER LVL.

TO DETERMINE THE NUMBER OF LEVELS THAT A HAND CRAFTED ITEM
CAN HOLD, =  RD/ 5.

                         GLYPHS

     A magical symbol that is placed on an object.  It's
function is to activate something, open a door raise a bridge
or anything that requires limited access.  To Activate a
glyph one must know how to read it and execute it.  Once the
glyph is used, it disappears.

                      MAGIC SCRIPT

     Magic script is written in magical language and can be
used over and over again, but it must be read either mentally
or vocally in its' entirety each time that it is used.  Using
Magic Script costs no magic levels to use, it does, however
require the use of casting points as well as attack points.
These spells never fail.

                ARTISAN TRAINING  INT. + OFR / 2 = Base

     When a PC has an artisan training he is able to fashion
objects by employing specific skills. For example an artisan
trained in the art of carving can carve in stone, wood, clay,
metal, etc.  If the PC's training is tailor he can make
clothing from cloth, leather, or any other media.  The
artisan trainings are: carving, Pottery, jeweler, ship
wright, weapons, armor, tailor, carpenter, instrument maker,
weaving, and brewing.


                    RUNE CRAFTS TRAINING
     Rune crafts are the magic crafts that a PC needs if he
wishes to place a rune on an object.  These crafts include:
Clay, wood, stone, herb, reed, metal, and hide. The object
that the rune is to be inscribed on must be made of the
substance that the PC has the Rune Craft in.


                    IMPRESS SPELL

     This process allows one that is trained in Immpress Spell, to PRE CAST spells but avoid trigering their effects untill they are needed, by  impressing them mentally.  The number of spell levels that a PC can impress is = to the RNK
of training that the PC has in Impress Spell. To
Impress the spell the spell caster must expend the full
amount of magic levels that are required to cast the spell to be impressed.

EXAMPLE: Sure Strike 2, to impress this spell, one must have an Impress Spell RNK of 37 or more.  The spell caster impressing the spell must then successfully cast the spell using the number of ML's that are required for Sure Strike 2, 40, - any RD Bonus. The spell can then be held, impressed,
indefinatly.  To use the spell, the spell caster must roll
the target score needed to successfully cast the immpressed spell, at no ML cost or CP"s, unless the spell caster is in combat, then he will also expend the CP,s that this spell requires.  If the spell caster fails to cast the impressed spell, it is lost.

BER + INT ./. 2 = BASE TRAINING LEVEL.

Mage purchace spells at  10 Exp. Pts. per spell
Quasi (Shandorian's)     15
Warrior                  20

CP'S =  CAST RNK


    

Melle Weapons
G- Sword, Hammer, Pole
C- Great Sword, Great Hammer, Short pole
S - Bastard Sword, Short Sword, Pike
U- Excalubure, Thors Hammer, Your Pike

Personal
G- Strike, Wrestle, Judo
C-Punch, Kick, Throw, Ram, Pin
S- Flyhing Kick, Back hand, Half Nelson
U- Spin Kick to head, Hammer Blow to neck

Combat Manuvers
G- Enviroment, Guided Shot, Tactics
C-Forest, Artilary, Larg Groups
S- Jungle, Thunder Bunker, Heavy Assault
U- Bornio, Station 7 Thunder Bunker, Squad #12 

Throw
G- Axe, Hammer, Stones, Spear
C- Large Axe, Small Hammer, Boulders
S-Double Edge Large Axe, Small Thowing Hammer, 	Disk Sahped Boulder
U - Own Personal Throwing Weapon

Marksmanship
G- Beam, Balistic, Rocket, Enegery Bolt
C- Pist0l, Rifle, Machine Gun, Semi-Auto
U- Zo-Pulse Rifle, AK-47

OWLIN TRAINING APTITUDES

BATTLE

ATHLETIC
       

SURVIVAL


SUBVERSIVE
             
RUNE CRAFT 


ARTISAN 


MAGIC

   
SCHOLASTIC

 
DISCIPLINES

SPELL APTITUDE LIST

HEALTH


UTILITY


OFFENSIVE


DEFENSIVE




FORCYTHIUM MINATOR
PHARAYAN
SPELL CASTER

RACIAL ATTRIBUTE BONUS
HLT  5           EVO  20          BER  10           INT  5                     

RACIAL SENSES AND MODIFIERS
VISION   %        HEARING  %            SMELL  %          
WEIGHT            MOVEMENT                 BULK

GUARDIAN ATTRIBUTE BONUS  
EVO  10          BER  10

GUARDIAN INNATE ABILITIES
CASTING  LVL 10
RUNE CRAFT METAL  LVL 6
   
CHAMPION ATTRIBUTE BONUS  

CHAMPION INNATE ABILITIES
 
GRAND GUARDIAN ATTRIBUTE BONUS 
 
GRAND GUARDIAN INNATE ABILITIES




FORCYTHIUM MINATOR TRAINING APTITUDES

BATTLE

ATHLETIC
       

SURVIVAL


SUBVERSIVE
             
RUNE CRAFT 


ARTISAN 


MAGIC

   
SCHOLASTIC

 
DISCIPLINES

SPELL APTITUDE LIST

HEALTH


UTILITY


OFFENSIVE


DEFENSIVE




RAMMANTUS
PHARAYAN
MEDIUM WARRIOR, ROGUE, MARTIAL ARTIST

RACIAL ATTRIBUTE BONUS
 STR  10        SPD  10        HLT  10        PER  5        LUCK  5     

RACIAL SENSES AND MODIFIERS
VISION   %        HEARING  %            SMELL  %          
WEIGHT            MOVEMENT                 BULK

GUARDIAN ATTRIBUTE BONUS  
STR  5           SPD  5            HLT  5           PER  5        

GUARDIAN INNATE ABILITIES
RAM 5
ANTLERS  DL 33
   
CHAMPION ATTRIBUTE BONUS  
STR  10           SPD  5            PER  5          LUCK  10  

CHAMPION INNATE ABILITIES
RAM 10
ANTLERS  DL  51
SHIMMER  5
 
GRAND GUARDIAN ATTRIBUTE BONUS 
STR  10           SPD  10            PER  10          LUCK  10 

GRAND GUARDIAN INNATE ABILITIES
RAM 20
ANTLERS 75 DL




RAMMANTUS TRAINING APTITUDES

BATTLE
Medium Blade               Medium Blunt                Ram     
Throw                           Pin                                Blind Fighting
Combat Manueauvers  Cross Bow
   
ATHLETIC
All       

SURVIVAL
Mountain Survival     Locate Food     Locate Water

SUBVERSIVE
Stealth 1     Stealth 2
             
RUNE CRAFT 
Leather

ARTISAN 
Tailor

MAGIC
Casting
   
SCHOLASTIC
Mountain Lore
 
DISCIPLINES
Physical

SPELL APTITUDE LIST

HEALTH
Quick Fix

UTILITY
Glow Rod             Wind Grappler             Enhanse Spd     
Enhanse Per         Enhanse  Str               Enhanse Luck          
Invisibility              Cloak                            Weapon Mend
  

OFFENSIVE
Force Sphere         Flamming Weapon       Frosting Strike
Star Shatter            Sunder

DEFENSIVE
Stone Sheild          Fasbark Sheild     Sanctum Armor



TRAINING APTITUDES

BATTLE

ATHLETIC
       

SURVIVAL


SUBVERSIVE
             
RUNE CRAFT 


ARTISAN 


MAGIC

   
SCHOLASTIC

 
DISCIPLINES

SPELL APTITUDE LIST

HEALTH


UTILITY


OFFENSIVE


DEFENSIVE




SHANDORIAN CURR
PHARAYAN
RANGER, MEDIUM WARRIOR, 
RACIAL ATTRIBUTE BONUS
      

RACIAL SENSES AND MODIFIERS
VISION   %        HEARING  %            SMELL  %          
WEIGHT            MOVEMENT                 BULK

GUARDIAN ATTRIBUTE BONUS  

GUARDIAN INNATE ABILITIES
ENHANSED SENSE OF SMELL
THICK FUR
CYCLE BONES
CHAMPION ATTRIBUTE BONUS  


CHAMPION INNATE ABILITIES
SCENT RECOGNITION
TRACKING
NIGHT VISION 
GRAND GUARDIAN ATTRIBUTE BONUS 
ENHANSED HEARING
 
GRAND GUARDIAN INNATE ABILITIES
ENHANSED HEARING
CYCLE BONE




TRAINING APTITUDES

BATTLE
   
ATHLETIC
       

SURVIVAL


SUBVERSIVE
             
RUNE CRAFT 


ARTISAN 


MAGIC


   
SCHOLASTIC


 
DISCIPLINES

SPELL APTITUDE LIST

HEALTH


UTILITY



OFFENSIVE



DEFENSIVE






TRAINING APTITUDES

BATTLE
   
ATHLETIC
       

SURVIVAL


SUBVERSIVE
             
RUNE CRAFT 


ARTISAN 


MAGIC


   
SCHOLASTIC


 
DISCIPLINES

SPELL APTITUDE LIST

HEALTH


UTILITY



OFFENSIVE



DEFENSIVE






TRAINING APTITUDES

BATTLE
   
ATHLETIC
       

SURVIVAL


SUBVERSIVE
             
RUNE CRAFT 


ARTISAN 


MAGIC


   
SCHOLASTIC


 
DISCIPLINES

SPELL APTITUDE LIST

HEALTH


UTILITY



OFFENSIVE



DEFENSIVE






ASSASSIN RAT
BEAST

STR   80      8         	OFR                       VALUE	
HLT   90      9         	DFR		                 370 P
SPD   92      9	         	DR  9    
PER   99      10               	AP
INT    48       5	                        MP    

TEETH   OFR          DL 31
CLAW   OFR          DL 11
SLEEP POISON  RNK 19  Sleep for 1d6 + 2 RNDS

INNATE 
X-RAY VISION                  INVISIVILITY
PHAZE                              ANTI LIGHT
FLOAT

Black and Gray Patterns













GIANT JUMPING SPIDER
BEAST

STR   149    15         	OFR                       VALUE	
HLT   59       6         	DFR		                  P
SPD   196    20	                        DR   0   
PER   248    25               	AP
INT    13      1	                        MP    

FANGS   OFR          DL  20 +2

INNATE 


Weight  1040

LIGHTENING BOLT RESULT

LIGHTENING BOLT RESULT


 BELOW 1

1-10

11-20

21-30

31-40

41-50

51-60

61-70

71-80

81-90

91-99

100

ABOVE 100



 BELOW 1

 1-10

11-20

21-30

31-40

41-50

51-60

61-70

71-80

81-90

91-99

100

ABOVE 100


ABOVE 100




Red Liquification

Sets Anything on fire

Shock proofs



LIGHTENING BOLT RESULT

MUTATION RESULT

 
BELOW 1

1-10

11-20

21-30

31-40

41-50

51-60

61-70

71-80

81-90

91-99

100

ABOVE 100



 BELOW 1

1-10

11-20

21-30

31-40

41-50

51-60

61-70

71-80

81-90

91-99

100

ABOVE 100




HEALTH RESULTS

MUTATION RESULT

TYPE 

1-10

11-20


21-30

31-40


41-50

51-60

61-70

71-80


81-90


91-99

100

BELOW 1

1-20

21-40

41-60

61-80

81-99

100

100 AND UP





1-5

6-10

11-15

16-20

21-25

26-30

31-35

36-40

41-45

46-50

51-55

56-60

61-65

66-70

71-75

76-80 

81-85

88-90

91-95

96-100





RANDOM ENCOUNTERS
  
     The possibilities for a random encounter while traveling throuth the realms of the Dark Wind are limitless.  These unpridictible and alwas untimly episodes can instantly alter a character.  
     The G.M. can choose to use the Random Encounter chart below at any place in any adventure and can either roll for the encounter himself or have the PC's roll for it.  First, roll to determine the type of encounter then roll again to determine the result of the encounter.

              







1
1
2
4
3
4
4
4
5
2
1
2
2
3
3
3
4
4
4
2
7
3
8
4
6
5
4
6
6
5
5
6
2
2



3
4
6
10
11
11
12
13
15
5
4
5
9
7
8
9
10
11
12
6
21
11
24
12
18
15
12
18
18
9
9
18
6
12




Dagger
Dirk
Short Sword
Long Sword
Sabber
Cutlas
Broad Sword
Bastard Sword
Great Sword
Staff
Light Club
Medium Club
Heavy Club
Light Mace
Medium Mace
Heavy Mace
Light Hammer
Medium Hammer
Heavy Hammer
Pike
Pole Arm
Javalin
Lance
Spear
Battle Spear
Trident
Hand Axe
Battle Axe
War Cycle
Ball & Chain
Flail
Morning Star
Whip
Toothed Whip





FOMULAS AND
MECHANICS

 MAGIC TRAINING

Initial number of spells characters get:
EVO. Score  ./. 10 = Initial Number of Spells.

EVO + MODIFIER (racial) ./. 20 = # of Spells attained each
level there after.

     If a PC chooses to enhance his ability to in magic he
would have to train in casting.  A PC could greatly improve
its ability to cast spells spending experience points on this
training.  Or a PC may wish to spend his experience points
learning new spells.

                    IMPRESS SPELL

     This process allows one that is trained in Immpress
Spell, to PRE CAST spells but avoid trigering their effects
untill they are needed, by  impressing them mentally.  The
number of spell levels that a PC can impress is = to the RNK
of training that the PC has in Impress Spell. To
Impress the spell the spell caster must expend the full
amount of magic levels that are required to cast the spell to
be impressed.

EXAMPLE: Sure Strike 2, to impress this spell, one must have
an Impress Spell RNK of 37 or more.  The spell caster
impressing the spell must then successfully cast the spell
using the number of ML's that are required for Sure Strike 2,
40, - any RD Bonus. The spell can then be held, impressed,
indefinatly.  To use the spell, the spell caster must roll
the target score needed to successfully cast the immpressed
spell, at no ML cost or CP"s, unless the spell caster is in
combat, then he will also expend the CP,s that this spell
requires.  If the spell caster fails to cast the impressed
spell, it is lost.

BER + INT ./. 2 = BASE TRAINING LEVEL.

Mage purchace spells at  10 Exp. Pts. per spell
Quasi (Shandorian's)     15
Warrior                  20

CP'S =  CAST RNK

                     TO MAKE A SPELL              7-03-92

1.  Determine your spells level. Lvl= # of CP's to cast                                  spell.
2.  Then determine the spells Rank = The spell's level x 3 +
     47.
3.  The spells rank is = to the development points.
4.  Assign the development points to the spell as follows:
5.  PROLONG:  Base of -10 development points. (spells level-3
    =PC.)  To reduce the cost to prolong a spell it costs 10
    for every -1 to Prolong Cost. (PC)  ( 10-1 )
6.  To determine MAGIC LEVEL cost= spells level +3.  To
    reduce this cost: it costs 10 points to every -1 to ML
    cost. ( 10-1 )
7.  DURATION: Base of Instant= 0 Development points. Then to
    increase = 1 point per round. (note: 10 rounds = 1 turn)
8.  RANGE: Base of self  -10 touch = 0 development points.
    Then to increase = 2 points per 1 foot. ( 2-1 )
9.  AREA OF EFFECT:  Base of 1 creature or 3 feet = 0
    development points. To increase = 15 points per creature
    or 15 points per 3 feet.   ( 15-3 )
10. RESULT DIFFERENCE:  Spell score - 40.  To reduce: 1 DP =  -5 to RD. ( 1-5)
11. RESULT DIFFERENCE EFFECT: - the RD score from ML's
12. EFFECTS:
    10 dp for every +3 to DL or DR.
    10 dp for every + or -3 to a rank training.
    15 dp per 1 + or - AP, CP, DFR, OFR.
    1 dp to + or - 1% weight, size, etc difference.
    5 DP = 1 MPH.
    20 dp = 1 attribute rank
    Darkness=15dp
    Wall stick or hold =3dp
    Phaze=25dp+25per crt+25per ton
    Invisibility = 15dp
    Float=5dp
    Poison=10dp per lvl. Base DL + DL per LVL
    Distance= 10dp per 3'
    Magic Art Innate = 5dp per lvl
    Flight = 16dp
    Glide= 6dp [A (height of launch) x B (4)= distance]
           + to B = 5dp per 1
    Alteration of matter or mind =150dp
Alteration of sences =150dp
    Elemental control= 150 dp
    Transfer of Power from one to another= 200 dp
    Spirit=
    Sound travel= 25 for every mile.
    Sleep= 20
    Self AOE or RNG=-10
                
 FORMULAS                    6-15-92
Defending scores = level times 3 + 47
Poison: each lvl. of poison OFR=3  DL=6 per rnd.
Fly:  Fly at 1/2 str. score = mph  Dur= Hlt. Rnk. (Hrs)
      Load= 1/2 Str Score (lbs.)
Glider:Can glide at a distance of AxB
         A= Height of launch B= 

THE MECHANICS OF THE GAME
	
ENCOUNTER TIME
	Any time that an event occurs in which you must
know how long it takes a character to execute any number 
of  actions (i.e. attack with a sword, cast a spell, open a door,
exc.) you use Encounter Time. Such event's would include 
combat, trying to escape a collapsing building, exc.
 	Encounter Time is divided up into Turns and 
Rounds. There are ten rounds in a turn. A round lasts until
 every character that can execute an action has. [Example: There are four characters involved in a combat. When 
combat starts it is round one. After each character has 
executed all the actions it can in one round the round is 
over.  Then  it   would be round two, each character would
 get to act, then round three would start. ]

ATTACK POINT COST
	As mentioned under Attack Points each
physical action cost an amount of AP to execute. The exact
cost varies from action to action. A character can carry AP 
from one round  into another. This allows a character that 
gains 3 AP a round to save it's attack points for one round, 
thus at the beginning of the second it would have 6AP.  This
allows the character to execute physical actions that it
would not gain enough AP in one round to do. 


Attacking 
	Their are two factors in determining the AP cost 
when a character attacks, what weapon is it using and how 
many times has it already attacked in the present round. 
The more times a character attacks in a round, the more 
the AP cost will be. The chart bellow shows the base AP 
cost for attacking with a weapon that has an AP cost of 0. (Un-
armed)

ATTACK NUMBER     1   2   3   4   5   6   7   8   9
AP COST                     2   3   5   6   8   9   11 12 14

[Example: Abar-Buktu the shiraka is attacking with his fist, 
he has 5 AP.Fists do not have a AP Cost Modifier. It is
 his first attack in round one, it will cost him 2 AP. His 
second attack in round one will cost him 3 AP, his total now 
being 5 AP. Since Abar-Buktu only has 5 AP he can not 
attack anymore in round one. When round two starts, Abar-
Buktu get's 5 AP, and he can attack again. ] When a 
character attacks with a weapon they add the weapons
AP cost modifier to the AP cost for the attack. As mentioned 
under Attack Points a character can carry AP from one 
round into another. This allows a character with an AP 
score of 3 to use a weapon that would cost 4 AP on the first
attack, although the would have to save AP on the previous
round.

Scalar Runes
	Scholar Runes are spells that are read from
a book, scroll, exc. These of course require AP to read
them. The cost is dependent upon the  rune and are shown 
in the rune description.

Brewing
	A character can use it's Brewers Runes during
Encounter Time to mix potions. The AP cost of mixing 
a potion is dependent upon which runes it is putting into 
the potion and like Scholar Runes are shown in the rune 
description. However, since a potion will retain it's 
properties  indefinitely and brewing often requires a lot of AP
it is advised that characters brew their potions before 
the get into Encounter Time.

Other Physical Actions
	The following  is a list of other physical actions that 
character may wish to execute during Encounter Time.

Attacks
Ramming	3	Throw		3

Miscellaneous

      
g Points Cost
	As mentioned under Casting Points casting
personal spells, brewing potion and reading scholar runes 
cost CP. 	The cost is dependent upon what the character
 is doing and are shown in the rune or spell  description.
Like AP you can save CP and carry them into the following
round.

ATTEMPT SYSTEM
	Any time a character attempts to do something the 
attempt system is used to determine the outcome.  Every 
attempt will fall into one of three categories: Attack attempt, Magic attempt or feat attempt.

Success Role (SR)
	Any time a character makes an attempt,  a success 
Role is use to determine weather or not it succeed. To 
determine the base SR role 1d100oe. The SR is then 
modified by Success Score Modifiers.

Success Role Modifier(SRM)
	Success Role Modifiers are any factors 
which would effect the outcome of an attempt. They
are added (+SRM) or subtracted (-SRM) from the  SR. 
The most common SRM are listed under the attempt 
description in two columns, one column list the SRM that  are added to the SR and the other list those that are subtracted
 from the SR.

	Target Score(TS)
	A target score represents the basic difficulty 
of an attempt. When making an attempt the characters
end SR must be equal to or higher than the TS to succeed.
The TS for the attempt categories are listed in the 
description of each category.

 Result  Difference (RD)
	This represents the degree of success or failure
of any given attempt.  The RD is used differently for each
attempt category. The RD equals the difference between 
the SR and the TS. 


ATTACK ATTEMPTS
TS
	The target score for an attack attempt is the 
defenders DFR.

RD
	The RD for an attack attempt is used to determine
the amount of extra damage any given attack caused do to

the location of the hit and skill of the attacker. The extra 
damage done is called the Success Damage Level 
(SDL) and if found by dividing the RD by 3.

Ram
Success
	If a ram attack is successful the attacker has 
knocked the defender down.  The target takes an amount
of damage equal to the attackers WDL plus the SDL. At this
point both characters must regain their bearings at an AP
cost equal top the attack's DL divided by fifteen.  The 
characters effected by the ram can not act at all (including 
active defences) until they regain their bearings. 

Failure
	If a ram attack fails the attacker is susceptible to a
counter attack by its intended victum.  The defender
of the ram attack may attempt to throw the attacker at NO
AP COST. The defender gets to use the  RD of the failed
ram attack as a +SRM.
	+				-
AKR Ram Rnk 			DFN Weight Rnk
AKR OFR	                     	DFN Acrobatics Rnk
AKR Weight Rnk			DFN Balance Rnk
			


Pin
Success
	If a pin attack is successful the defender can not
act except to cast personal spells until it can Break Loose from
the attackers pin. 	The defender will take an amount of
damage equal to the attackers WD until it breaks free.  The 
attacker can not act except to cast personal spells or release 
the defender. Neither characters can use active defences 
while engaged in a pin.

Failure 
	If a pin attack fails the attacker is susceptible to a
counter attack by its intended victum.  The defender
of the pin attack may attempt to pin the attacker at NO
AP COST. The defender gets to use the  RD of the failed
pin attack as a +SRM.
	+				-
AKR Ram Rnk 			DFN Weight Rnk
AKR OFR			DFN Contortion Rnk

When attacking with a weapon the character 
uses the TRnk as a ASSM. The character can use a
 weapon to parry attack's, thus getting to add the weapon 
TRnk to the it's DFR when the character is using the
weapon. If the character is using more than one weapon
at a time then the character has to use the Multi Weapon
 training or be ambidextrous in order to get to add all of the
weapon TRnks to it's DFR.. Some weapon's cannot be 
used to parry attacks (ie.Bow's. Sling, exc.) .The character
can also use a weapon to disarm an opponent.
COMBAT
STEP ONE INITIATIVE

	Each character must role an initiative role at the 
beginning of each combat. The initiative role is used to 
determine the order in which the characters get to act in 
combat. Role 1d100 for each character and add their 
initiative rank to the role. This is the character's initiative

 score for the combat. he character with the highest score acts first, then going down in numeric order each character 
gets to act. If two or more characters  tie scores they re-role using the same system to break the tie.

DISARMING
 	In order for a character to disarm an opponent the 
 character must first be within attacking distance of its 
intended victum. Attempting to disarm a character has the 
same AP cost as dose attacking with the weapon that the character is using to disarm. The character then attacks the character using its disarm  T Rnk as a ASSM and the 
defenders weapon T Rnk plus forty seven as the 
defenders DFR. The rest of the disarm is run like a normal 
attack but  instead of the defender taking  damage it is 
disarmed. 
Un- Armed
	If a character that is attempting to disarm
 an armed opponent while un-armed and fails it will  take 
damage equal  the difference between the attackers ASS 
and the defenders weapon T Rnk divided by three plus the defenders weapon DL.
Dmg Taken=Defenders Weapon T Rnk - Attackers 
Strike Trnk / 3 + Weapons DL



WYVERYN
DARKEN

STR   200    20         	OFR                       VALUE	
HLT   200    20         	DFR		                P
SPD   100    10         	DR  200    
PER   200     20               	AP
INT     80      8	                        MP  12 
EVO   40      4	                        ML  40 
BER   120     12

CLAW       OFR          DL
BITE          OFR          DL
STINGER   OFR          DL
POISON     OFR          DL

INNATE 
FLIGHT  
ARMORED SCALES  DR  200  
FIGHT  60
WEIGHT  31,000











ASSIMILATOR SKELETON
BEAST

STR   169    17         	OFR                       VALUE	
HLT    271    27         	DFR		                P
SPD   64       6	         	DR  30    
PER    83      8               	AP

STRIKE   OFR          DL 71  

INNATE 
FIGHT  LVL 30

WEIGHT  1548


RACIAL ATTRIBUTE BONUS
      

RACIAL SENSES AND MODIFIERS
VISION   %        HEARING  %            SMELL  %          
WEIGHT            MOVEMENT                 BULK

GUARDIAN ATTRIBUTE BONUS  

GUARDIAN INNATE ABILITIES
   
CHAMPION ATTRIBUTE BONUS  


CHAMPION INNATE ABILITIES
 
GRAND GUARDIAN ATTRIBUTE BONUS 
 
GRAND GUARDIAN INNATE ABILITIES





BAYBOAR
BEAST

STR   80     8         	OFR                       VALUE	
HLT   60     6         	DFR		                   20 P
SPD   94     9	         	DR  12    
PER   73      7               	AP
INT    30      3	                        MP    

TUSK   OFR          DL 14
BITE     OFR          DL 13

INNATE 
TRAVEL IN PACKS 3 - 30

     An ugly blend of boar and wolf, bayboars ar both evil tempered and agressive.  Bayboars and their cousins  inhabit nearly all terrains.  They have  thick skin and are covered 
with  densly matted brown - green fur.  There is no mistaking the presense of Bayboars, they are preceded by a 
nausiating stench. 












GIANT RAT
BEAST

STR   72     7         	OFR                       VALUE	
HLT   120    12         	DFR		                  25 P
SPD   97      8	         	DR   3    
PER   86      9               	AP
INT    15      2	                        MP    

CLAWS   OFR          DL  10
TEETH      OFR          DL  11


INNATE 
INFRA VISION

5' Long











CHARACTER TYPES AND TRAINING




RACIAL ATTRIBUTE BONUS
      

RACIAL SENSES AND MODIFIERS
VISION   %        HEARING  %            SMELL  %          
WEIGHT            MOVEMENT                 BULK

GUARDIAN ATTRIBUTE BONUS  

GUARDIAN INNATE ABILITIES
   
CHAMPION ATTRIBUTE BONUS  


CHAMPION INNATE ABILITIES
 
GRAND GUARDIAN ATTRIBUTE BONUS 
 
GRAND GUARDIAN INNATE ABILITIES





VORBAT
BEAST

STR                   	OFR                       VALUE	
HLT                  	DFR		                  P
SPD   	         	DR       
PER                  	AP
INT                                           MP
EVO                                        CP   
BER                                         ML   



INNATE 




















SPITTING TARPA
BEAST

STR                    	OFR                       VALUE	
HLT                    	DFR		                  85 P
SPD   	         	DR        
PER                                         AP
BER                                         MP
INT                                     
EVO                                                                    

INNATE 


VORBAT
BEAST

STR                   	OFR                       VALUE	
HLT                  	DFR		                  P
SPD   	         	DR       
PER                  	AP
INT                                           MP
EVO                                        CP   
BER                                         ML   



INNATE 




















SPITTING TARPA
BEAST

STR                    	OFR                       VALUE	
HLT                    	DFR		                  85 P
SPD   	         	DR        
PER                                         AP
BER                                         MP
INT                                     
EVO                                                                    

INNATE 


VORBAT
BEAST

STR                   	OFR                       VALUE	
HLT                  	DFR		                  P
SPD   	         	DR       
PER                  	AP
INT                                           MP
EVO                                        CP   
BER                                         ML   



INNATE 




















SPITTING TARPA
BEAST

STR                    	OFR                       VALUE	
HLT                    	DFR		                  85 P
SPD   	         	DR        
PER                                         AP
BER                                         MP
INT                                     
EVO                                                                    

INNATE 


VORBAT
BEAST

STR                   	OFR                       VALUE	
HLT                  	DFR		                  P
SPD   	         	DR       
PER                  	AP
INT                                           MP
EVO                                        CP   
BER                                         ML   



INNATE 




















SPITTING TARPA
BEAST

STR                    	OFR                       VALUE	
HLT                    	DFR		                  85 P
SPD   	         	DR        
PER                                         AP
BER                                         MP
INT                                     
EVO                                                                    

INNATE 


VORBAT
BEAST

STR                   	OFR                       VALUE	
HLT                  	DFR		                  P
SPD   	         	DR       
PER                  	AP
INT                                           MP
EVO                                        CP   
BER                                         ML   



INNATE 




















SPITTING TARPA
BEAST

STR                    	OFR                       VALUE	
HLT                    	DFR		                  85 P
SPD   	         	DR        
PER                                         AP
BER                                         MP
INT                                     
EVO                                                                    

INNATE 


BURBOCK
PHARAYAN
TEAMSTER, PILOT, SAILOR, BUCCANEER

RACIAL ATTRIBUTE BONUS
      

RACIAL SENSES AND MODIFIERS
VISION   %        HEARING  %            SMELL  %          
WEIGHT            MOVEMENT                 BULK

GUARDIAN ATTRIBUTE BONUS  

GUARDIAN INNATE ABILITIES
   
CHAMPION ATTRIBUTE BONUS  


CHAMPION INNATE ABILITIES
 
GRAND GUARDIAN ATTRIBUTE BONUS 
 
GRAND GUARDIAN INNATE ABILITIES





TRAINING APTITUDES

BATTLE

ATHLETIC
       

SURVIVAL


SUBVERSIVE
             
RUNE CRAFT 


ARTISAN 


MAGIC

   
SCHOLASTIC

 
DISCIPLINES

SPELL APTITUDE LIST

HEALTH


UTILITY


OFFENSIVE


DEFENSIVE




9
17
18
30
38
33
36
39
45
15
15
17
18
21
24
27
30
33
36
18
63
36
72
38
54
45
36
54
54
22
22
33
24
27



TRAINING APTITUDES

BATTLE
Pole     Bow     Aim and Shoot     Beam Weapons
   
ATHLETIC
Rideing     Running     Swimming      

SURVIVAL
Topical Navigation     Celestial Navigation     Locate Shelter    
Subteranian Navigation     City Navigation     Water Navigation

SUBVERSIVE
Conceal Object     Detect Trap     
             
RUNE CRAFT 
Wood     Reed     Metal     Leather     

ARTISAN 
Wagonwright     Harness Maker

MAGIC


   
SCHOLASTIC


 
DISCIPLINES

SPELL APTITUDE LIST

HEALTH


UTILITY



OFFENSIVE



DEFENSIVE






TRAINING APTITUDES

BATTLE
   
ATHLETIC
       

SURVIVAL
Survival Arctic     Survival Tundra      Survival Woodlands
Survival Mountains

SUBVERSIVE
             
RUNE CRAFT 


ARTISAN 


MAGIC


   
SCHOLASTIC


 
DISCIPLINES

SPELL APTITUDE LIST

HEALTH


UTILITY



OFFENSIVE



DEFENSIVE






TRAINING APTITUDES

BATTLE

ATHLETIC
       

SURVIVAL


SUBVERSIVE
             
RUNE CRAFT 


ARTISAN 


MAGIC

   
SCHOLASTIC

 
DISCIPLINES

SPELL APTITUDE LIST

HEALTH


UTILITY


OFFENSIVE


DEFENSIVE





RACIAL ATTRIBUTE BONUS
      

RACIAL SENSES AND MODIFIERS
VISION   %        HEARING  %            SMELL  %          
WEIGHT            MOVEMENT                 BULK

GUARDIAN ATTRIBUTE BONUS  

GUARDIAN INNATE ABILITIES
   
CHAMPION ATTRIBUTE BONUS  

CHAMPION INNATE ABILITIES
 
GRAND GUARDIAN ATTRIBUTE BONUS 
 
GRAND GUARDIAN INNATE ABILITIES





VORBAT
BEAST

STR                   	OFR                       VALUE	
HLT                  	DFR		                  P
SPD   	         	DR       
PER                  	AP
INT                                           MP
EVO                                        CP   
BER                                         ML   



INNATE 




















SPITTING TARPA
BEAST

STR                    	OFR                       VALUE	
HLT                    	DFR		                  85 P
SPD   	         	DR        
PER                                         AP
BER                                         MP
INT                                     
EVO                                                                    

INNATE 


TRAINING APTITUDES

BATTLE

ATHLETIC
       

SURVIVAL


SUBVERSIVE
             
RUNE CRAFT 


ARTISAN 


MAGIC

   
SCHOLASTIC

 
DISCIPLINES

SPELL APTITUDE LIST

HEALTH


UTILITY


OFFENSIVE


DEFENSIVE





RACIAL ATTRIBUTE BONUS
      

RACIAL SENSES AND MODIFIERS
VISION   %        HEARING  %            SMELL  %          
WEIGHT            MOVEMENT                 BULK

GUARDIAN ATTRIBUTE BONUS  

GUARDIAN INNATE ABILITIES
   
CHAMPION ATTRIBUTE BONUS  

CHAMPION INNATE ABILITIES
 
GRAND GUARDIAN ATTRIBUTE BONUS 
 
GRAND GUARDIAN INNATE ABILITIES





VORBAT
BEAST

STR                   	OFR                       VALUE	
HLT                  	DFR		                  P
SPD   	         	DR       
PER                  	AP
INT                                           MP
EVO                                        CP   
BER                                         ML   



INNATE 




















SPITTING TARPA
BEAST

STR                    	OFR                       VALUE	
HLT                    	DFR		                  85 P
SPD   	         	DR        
PER                                         AP
BER                                         MP
INT                                     
EVO                                                                    

INNATE 


VORBAT
BEAST

STR                   	OFR                       VALUE	
HLT                  	DFR		                  P
SPD   	         	DR       
PER                  	AP
INT                                           MP
EVO                                        CP   
BER                                         ML   



INNATE 




















SPITTING TARPA
BEAST

STR                    	OFR                       VALUE	
HLT                    	DFR		                  85 P
SPD   	         	DR        
PER                                         AP
BER                                         MP
INT                                     
EVO                                                                    

INNATE 


VORBAT
BEAST

STR                   	OFR                       VALUE	
HLT                  	DFR		                  P
SPD   	         	DR       
PER                  	AP
INT                                           MP
EVO                                        CP   
BER                                         ML   



INNATE 




















SPITTING TARPA
BEAST

STR                    	OFR                       VALUE	
HLT                    	DFR		                  85 P
SPD   	         	DR        
PER                                         AP
BER                                         MP
INT                                     
EVO                                                                    

INNATE 


VORBAT
BEAST

STR                   	OFR                       VALUE	
HLT                  	DFR		                  P
SPD   	         	DR       
PER                  	AP
INT                                           MP
EVO                                        CP   
BER                                         ML   



INNATE 




















SPITTING TARPA
BEAST

STR                    	OFR                       VALUE	
HLT                    	DFR		                  85 P
SPD   	         	DR        
PER                                         AP
BER                                         MP
INT                                     
EVO                                                                    

INNATE 


VORBAT
BEAST

STR                   	OFR                       VALUE	
HLT                  	DFR		                  P
SPD   	         	DR       
PER                  	AP
INT                                           MP
EVO                                        CP   
BER                                         ML   



INNATE 




















SPITTING TARPA
BEAST

STR                    	OFR                       VALUE	
HLT                    	DFR		                  85 P
SPD   	         	DR        
PER                                         AP
BER                                         MP
INT                                     
EVO                                                                    

INNATE 


Height	1-2	3-4	5-6	7-8	9-10	11-12	13-14	15-16	17-18
Wgt Mod	2	5	8	11	14	17	20	23	26
Dodge	15	10	5	0	5	10	15	20	25
	-75	-50	-25	0	+150	+200	+250	+300	+350

VORBAT
BEAST

STR                   	OFR                       VALUE	
HLT                  	DFR		                  P
SPD   	         	DR       
PER                  	AP
INT                                           MP
EVO                                        CP   
BER                                         ML   



INNATE 




















SPITTING TARPA
BEAST

STR                    	OFR                       VALUE	
HLT                    	DFR		                  85 P
SPD   	         	DR        
PER                                         AP
BER                                         MP
INT                                     
EVO                                                                    

INNATE 


VORBAT
BEAST

STR                   	OFR                       VALUE	
HLT                  	DFR		                  P
SPD   	         	DR       
PER                  	AP
INT                                           MP
EVO                                        CP   
BER                                         ML   



INNATE 




















SPITTING TARPA
BEAST

STR                    	OFR                       VALUE	
HLT                    	DFR		                  85 P
SPD   	         	DR        
PER                                         AP
BER                                         MP
INT                                     
EVO                                                                    

INNATE 


VORBAT
BEAST

STR                   	OFR                       VALUE	
HLT                  	DFR		                  P
SPD   	         	DR       
PER                  	AP
INT                                           MP
EVO                                        CP   
BER                                         ML   



INNATE 




















SPITTING TARPA
BEAST

STR                    	OFR                       VALUE	
HLT                    	DFR		                  85 P
SPD   	         	DR        
PER                                         AP
BER                                         MP
INT                                     
EVO                                                                    

INNATE 


VORBAT
BEAST

STR                   	OFR                       VALUE	
HLT                  	DFR		                  P
SPD   	         	DR       
PER                  	AP
INT                                           MP
EVO                                        CP   
BER                                         ML   



INNATE 




















SPITTING TARPA
BEAST

STR                    	OFR                       VALUE	
HLT                    	DFR		                  85 P
SPD   	         	DR        
PER                                         AP
BER                                         MP
INT                                     
EVO                                                                    

INNATE 


VORBAT
BEAST

STR                   	OFR                       VALUE	
HLT                  	DFR		                  P
SPD   	         	DR       
PER                  	AP
INT                                           MP
EVO                                        CP   
BER                                         ML   



INNATE 




















SPITTING TARPA
BEAST

STR                    	OFR                       VALUE	
HLT                    	DFR		                  85 P
SPD   	         	DR        
PER                                         AP
BER                                         MP
INT                                     
EVO                                                                    

INNATE 


VORBAT
BEAST

STR                   	OFR                       VALUE	
HLT                  	DFR		                  P
SPD   	         	DR       
PER                  	AP
INT                                           MP
EVO                                        CP   
BER                                         ML   



INNATE 




















SPITTING TARPA
BEAST

STR                    	OFR                       VALUE	
HLT                    	DFR		                  85 P
SPD   	         	DR        
PER                                         AP
BER                                         MP
INT                                     
EVO                                                                    

INNATE 


MAGIC

VORBAT
BEAST

STR                   	OFR                       VALUE	
HLT                  	DFR		                  P
SPD   	         	DR       
PER                  	AP
INT                                           MP
EVO                                        CP   
BER                                         ML   



INNATE 




















SPITTING TARPA
BEAST

STR                    	OFR                       VALUE	
HLT                    	DFR		                  85 P
SPD   	         	DR        
PER                                         AP
BER                                         MP
INT                                     
EVO                                                                    

INNATE 


VORBAT
BEAST

STR                   	OFR                       VALUE	
HLT                  	DFR		                  P
SPD   	         	DR       
PER                  	AP
INT                                           MP
EVO                                        CP   
BER                                         ML   



INNATE 




















SPITTING TARPA
BEAST

STR                    	OFR                       VALUE	
HLT                    	DFR		                  85 P
SPD   	         	DR        
PER                                         AP
BER                                         MP
INT                                     
EVO                                                                    

INNATE 


VORBAT
BEAST

STR                   	OFR                       VALUE	
HLT                  	DFR		                  P
SPD   	         	DR       
PER                  	AP
INT                                           MP
EVO                                        CP   
BER                                         ML   



INNATE 




















SPITTING TARPA
BEAST

STR                    	OFR                       VALUE	
HLT                    	DFR		                  85 P
SPD   	         	DR        
PER                                         AP
BER                                         MP
INT                                     
EVO                                                                    

INNATE 


VORBAT
BEAST

STR                   	OFR                       VALUE	
HLT                  	DFR		                  P
SPD   	         	DR       
PER                  	AP
INT                                           MP
EVO                                        CP   
BER                                         ML   



INNATE 




















SPITTING TARPA
BEAST

STR                    	OFR                       VALUE	
HLT                    	DFR		                  85 P
SPD   	         	DR        
PER                                         AP
BER                                         MP
INT                                     
EVO                                                                    

INNATE 


 SPELLS
HEALTH 
MIDNIGHT MEND
REJUVENATE
QUICK FIX
SUNBEAM
RESURRECT
SOLAR HEAL
CURE POISON
PRESERVE
NEUTRALIZE POISON
CURE PARALYSIS
POISON GUARD

SENSORY ALTERATION
FIELD OF SILENCE
SPIRIT VISION
NUL VIEW
NIGHT VISION
TELESCOPIC VISION
HEIGHTENED HEARING
HEIGHTENED SENSE OF SMELL 
NULL SCENT
SONAR

OFFENSIVE SPELLS 
THUNDER MALL
FLAME BOMB
BLADE SHROUD
FLAMING WEAPON 
SPHERE OF DOOM
STAR SHATTER
SUNDER
FIRE BREATH
ICE SPEAR
FROSTING STRIKE
ROOT WHIP
FORCE STRIKE
BATTERY OF FORCE MISSILES
NEEDLE SHOT
STONE  AXE
FIRE FISTS
SAND SHOT
ICE RAY
SNOW FLAKE
FLAMING WEAPON 
SARRA WHIP
THORN STAR
ICE SPEAR
ICE TOUCH 
FIRE BOLT
TOXIC WATER POOL
FIRE CLOAK
TOXIC SPORE CLOUD
ACID RAIN
GEL-COAT
FIRE STORM
SUNFLASH
SONIC CHIRP
JET STREAM
SKY BLAST
ROCK SHATTER

DEFENSIVE SPELLS
SANCTUM ARMOR
REFLECT
FORCYTHIUM BUBBLE
STONE SHIELD
TORNADO GUARD
MAGIC DEFLECTOR SHIELD
RESIST MIND CONTROL
EARTHEN CIRCLE
WALL OF WIND
INVISIBLE WALL
ICE DOME
POWER FLARE
ANTI-LOCK
ENCHANTED ARMOR
MAGNETIC CYCLONE
VANISH
WIND CIRCLE
ARMOR ENHANCE
SPIKE ENHANCEMENT
FIRE CIRCLE
FIRE SPHERE
WATER CIRCLE
EMBER SHIELD
GRANITE TOUCH 
FIRE WALL
RUBBER SOLE
WATER RINGS
SHIMMER
REPEL

COMBAT ENHANCEMENT SPELLS
FASBARK SHIELD
FEATHER WEIGHT
BOOMERANG 
LIGHTENING STRIKE
ROOTS OF TRIPPING
SURE STRIKE
INCREASE VELOCITY
ARMS OF ENTANGLEMENT
WIND BOLAS
VORTEX
POWER CORD
REPLAY 
WEAPON MEND
MAGIC WEAPON GLUE

DOMINATION AND CONTROL
SANDMAN
MIND SCRAMBLE
BEAST SPEAK
LAUGH 
ROAR
FOG OF SMOTHERING
COMMANDER
HOLD FAST
MIND CONTROL
MIND MELD
IMPRESS IMMAGE
ASSUME PHYSIQUE
PARALYZE

UTILITY SPELLS
WIND GRAPPLER
COMPASS SENSE
INVISIBILITY
OBJECT SHRINK
ASCEND/DESCEND
RECONSTITUTE OBJECT 
MOVE OBJECT
DISPEL DARKNESS
POISON ENHANCEMENT
DEACTIVATE SPELL 
SENTRY
WATER STRIDER
BREATHE WATER
TOKEN HOLD
BATTERING RAM
BRIDGE OF FORCE
THE ILLUSION 
OBJECT SPEAK
PHAZE
ANTI-LIGHT
FLOAT
WALL WALK
GLOW ROD
OPEN
SURE FIRE
CANINE FORM
FELINE FORM
AWAKEN
PROJECT AWARENESS
FIRE MELD
PLANT MELD
WATER MELD
EARTH MELD
ANIMATE
REANIMATE
DEACTIVATE SPELL
ALTER SIZE 
ALTER WEIGHT
TRANSPORT CREATURE
ACID DRILL
PHAZE PICK
DETECT MAGIC
POISON ENHANCEMENT
SUNKILL
SLOW/ACCELERATE
SPELL FINDER
INDENTIFY MAGIC
POWER BOOST
DISPELL DARKNESS
INVISIBILITY
OBJECT SHRINK
RECONSTITUTE OBJECT
MOVE OBJECT
POWER CORD
MOSSES SYMDROM
GALE
BEAST FORM

TRAINING SUBSTITUTE SPELLS
NAVIGATION MASTER 1
NAVIGATION MASTER 2
NAVIGATION MASTER 3
NAVIGATION MASTER 4
PIN MASTER
SLAM MASTER
THE CARTOGRAPHER
THE SWIMMER
THE ACROBAT
BOT MASTER
EYE OF THE EAGLE
SILENT WALK MASTER
STREET SMART
CLOAKING
THE PICK POCKET
THE LOCK PICK
THE FORGER
CLAY CRAFTER 
WOOD CRAFTER 
STONE CRAFTER
HERB CRAFTER
REED CRAFTER
METAL CRAFTER
TANNING CRAFTER
GEM CRAFTER
THE CARVER
THE POTTER
THE JEWELER
THE SHIPWRIGHT
THE INSTRUMENT MAKER
THE WEAVER
ARMOR SMITH
THE WEAPON SMITH 
THE TAILOR
THE CARPENTER
THE BREWER
THE TRAP MAKER
THE CARTOGRAPHER
THE RUNE SCHOLAR
THE GLYPH SCHOLAR
THE MAGIC SCRIPT SCHOLAR
THE ARTIFACT SCHOLAR
MASTER CASTER
PARRY MASTER
DISARM MASTER 
BLIND FIGHTING MASTER
GUIDED SHOT MASTER
CANOPY MASTER
MASTER OF DISQUISE
COUNTERFITER
CAMOUFLAGE MASTER
TRACKING MASTER
HORSE MASTER
ENCHANTED AWARENRSS
SAILING MASTER
THE ARCHER
BLADE MASTER
CROSS BOW MASTER
AXE MASTER
SLING MASTER
POLE WEAPON MASTER
WHIP MASTER 
BALL & CHAIN MASTER
NET MASTER
IRON HAND
THROW MASTER
BLUNT WEAPON MASTER]
SHIRKIN MASTER
SAND HILL
LEAPING
IMPRESS OBJECT MASTER
TRAP DISARMAMENT MASTER
CHAMELEON
THE RUNE SCHOLAR
WITHOUT A TRACE
STEALTH MASTER
SQUIRREL CLIMB
ROPE WALK
FLEX
THE RUNNER
SCHOLASTIC TRAINING ENHANCEMENT
UNARMED COMBAT ENHANCEMENT
MANEUVERING AND TECHNIQUES ENHANCEMENT
WEAPON TRAINING ENHANCEMENT
MAGIC TRAINING ENHANCEMENT
RUNE CRAFT TRAINING ENHANCEMENT
ARTISAN CRAFT TRAINING ENHANCEMENT
ATHLETIC TRAINING ENHANCEMENT
SUBTRAFUGE TRAINING ENHANCEMENT
OUTDOOR & SURVIVAL TRAINING ENHANCEMENT

ATTRIBUTE MODIFICATION SPELLS
RECUCE ATTRIBUTE
BEARING ENHANCEMENT
INTELLEGENCE ENHANCEMENT
STRENGTH ENHANCEMENT
EVOCATION ENHANCEMENT
HEALTH ENHANCEMENT
SPEED ENHANCEMENT
PERCEPTION ENHANCEMENT
ENHANCE ATTRIBUTE
RECUCE HEALTH
REDUCE SPEED
REDUCE PERCEPTION
REDUCE EVOCATION
REDUCE INTELLIGENCE
REDUCE BEARING
REDUCE STRENGTH










VORBAT
BEAST

STR                   	OFR                       VALUE	
HLT                  	DFR		                  P
SPD   	         	DR       
PER                  	AP
INT                                           MP
EVO                                        CP   
BER                                         ML   



INNATE 




















SPITTING TARPA
BEAST

STR                    	OFR                       VALUE	
HLT                    	DFR		                  85 P
SPD   	         	DR        
PER                                         AP
BER                                         MP
INT                                     
EVO                                                                    

INNATE 


VORBAT
BEAST

STR                   	OFR                       VALUE	
HLT                  	DFR		                  P
SPD   	         	DR       
PER                  	AP
INT                                           MP
EVO                                        CP   
BER                                         ML   



INNATE 




















SPITTING TARPA
BEAST

STR                    	OFR                       VALUE	
HLT                    	DFR		                  85 P
SPD   	         	DR        
PER                                         AP
BER                                         MP
INT                                     
EVO                                                                    

INNATE 


VORBAT
BEAST

STR                   	OFR                       VALUE	
HLT                  	DFR		                  P
SPD   	         	DR       
PER                  	AP
INT                                           MP
EVO                                        CP   
BER                                         ML   



INNATE 




















SPITTING TARPA
BEAST

STR                    	OFR                       VALUE	
HLT                    	DFR		                  85 P
SPD   	         	DR        
PER                                         AP
BER                                         MP
INT                                     
EVO                                                                    

INNATE 


PINE BURS
BEAST

STR   230    23        	OFR                       VALUE	
HLT   40       4         	DFR		                   15 P
SPD   98      10        	DR    5    
PER    90      9               	AP
                                                MP

PARALIZING STING RNK 15 PER RND  ADULT
PARALIZING STING RNK 6 PER RND     JUVENILE
+5 DFR BOTH ADULT AND JUVENILE
FIGHTING RNK  20

INNATE 
AVOID DETECTION    20
AREA SENSE  RNK 50  FOR 100 FEET

     Small 2 inch in diamitor creatures covered with sharp sticky spines.  The Adults are brown and look like fallen pine 
needles.  The juveniles are green resembling fresh needles.
Both can jump high for their size, adults 6' and juveniles 3'.  They live in large colonies that can cover the floor of an 
entire pine forest.  They forrage for insects at night and make
a clicking noise.  Although peacefull by nature, pine burs act
as a group if they feel their colony is being attacked.
The Paralizing toxins secreted by the Pine Burs are used in 
the making of paralizing potions, and their spines make 
natural blow gun darts.



DARCOW SPIDER
BEAST

STR   185    19         	OFR                       VALUE	
HLT   180    18         	DFR		                355  P
SPD   107    11         	DR   15              
PER   88       9                     	AP                            
BER   70       7

BITE  DL  45
POISON  DL 75 PER RND 
WEB  STR RNK 100

INNATE
WALL WALK    50
BREATHE UNDER WATER  30
RESIST COLD   30
RESIST HEAT   30 
STEALTH  30

     Darcow spiders are common in the realms.  They range 
from 6 to 15 feet in height and can be found in all terraine 
types including under water and artic.  These solitary spiders are solitary in nature and activly persue their prey by  
shooting  their strong stickey webbing at their prey to hold it then  biteing and injecting thier deadly poison.  Many 
adventurer has lost a level due to an encounter with a 
darcow spider.  It is not uncommon to find figurines in the den 
of a darcow spider.
     As with many poisonus creatures of the realms, the poison of the Darcow spider is used in potions.




WOE WORMS
BEAST

STR   10      1         	OFR                       VALUE	
HLT   10      1         	DFR		                 15 P
SPD   200    20        	DR    0    
PER    210    21               	AP
BER   10       1                         MP

TOXIC SECRETIONS   DL 15 PER TURN

INNATE 
TOXIC SECRETIONS   
AVOID DETECTION    20
NULL SCENT              20

     These minute noctournal creatures, usually only 3/4 inch long,  are the bane of many adventurer.  The slug like Woe Worms attack food and water supplies rendering them 
useless.  The toxic secretions of the Woe Worm can damage even the most robust figurine.  Scrub  and forest areas are 
their favorite haunt although they have been known to infest inns, market places and any other place wher there is food 
and water.  Any who consumes contaminated food or water 
will suffer a 15 point HLT loss untill the antidote is 
administered.  Woe Worms are a common ingrediant used in the making of toxic potions.
                





NEWETTA
BEAST

STR   40       4         	OFR                       VALUE	
HLT   80       8         	DFR		               75 P
SPD   187    19         	DR   0              
PER   80       8                     	AP                            
BER   40       4


INNATE 
WALL WALK   30
PHAZE             20
SONAR            15


    The Neweta is a small brown lizard creature, about 11/2 feet long.  they dwells in caves or underground burrows.  They 
are extremely quick and difficult to catch However their 
sticky skin  can be easily enhansed to pick up small objectsmaking them popular as theif famillars. 



VORBAT
BEAST

STR                   	OFR                       VALUE	
HLT                  	DFR		                  P
SPD   	         	DR       
PER                  	AP
INT                                           MP
EVO                                        CP   
BER                                         ML   



INNATE 




















SPITTING TARPA
BEAST

STR                    	OFR                       VALUE	
HLT                    	DFR		                  85 P
SPD   	         	DR        
PER                                         AP
BER                                         MP
INT                                     
EVO                                                                    

INNATE 


VORBAT
BEAST

STR                   	OFR                       VALUE	
HLT                  	DFR		                  P
SPD   	         	DR       
PER                  	AP
INT                                           MP
EVO                                        CP   
BER                                         ML   



INNATE 




















SPITTING TARPA
BEAST

STR                    	OFR                       VALUE	
HLT                    	DFR		                  85 P
SPD   	         	DR        
PER                                         AP
BER                                         MP
INT                                     
EVO                                                                    

INNATE 


VORBAT
BEAST

STR                   	OFR                       VALUE	
HLT                  	DFR		                  P
SPD   	         	DR       
PER                  	AP
INT                                           MP
EVO                                        CP   
BER                                         ML   



INNATE 




















SPITTING TARPA
BEAST

STR                    	OFR                       VALUE	
HLT                    	DFR		                  85 P
SPD   	         	DR        
PER                                         AP
BER                                         MP
INT                                     
EVO                                                                    

INNATE 


VORBAT
BEAST

STR                   	OFR                       VALUE	
HLT                  	DFR		                  P
SPD   	         	DR       
PER                  	AP
INT                                           MP
EVO                                        CP   
BER                                         ML   



INNATE 




















SPITTING TARPA
BEAST

STR                    	OFR                       VALUE	
HLT                    	DFR		                  85 P
SPD   	         	DR        
PER                                         AP
BER                                         MP
INT                                     
EVO                                                                    

INNATE 


BUHI
BEAST

STR   93      9         	OFR                       VALUE	
HLT   93      9         	DFR		                  P
SPD   75      8	         	DR  0    
PER   69      7               	AP

Long Sword   OFR          DL  8 + 1

INNATE 
FLYING CARPET  + 15 DFR

     Buhi are animated bipedal skeletons who are controled by 
a Buhi Master.  They carry red long swords that can change into a dagger.  They ride Flying carpets that give them a 
bonnus to their DFR.















BUHI MASTER
DARKEN

STR                  	OFR                       VALUE	
HLT                  	DFR		                  P
SPD         	         	DR    
PER                        	AP
INT                                           MP
EVO                                      
BER

INNATE 














PELCRAYDEE
BEAST

STR   65      7         	OFR                       VALUE	
HLT   30      3         	DFR		                  20 P
SPD   186    17        	DR   30    
PER    88      9               	AP
BER   80       8                          MP

PINCER     OFR          DL  6
SAND SHOT              DL  18  

INNATE 
NATURAL ARMOR  
SONAR     7

     These crab like creatures inhabit the sea shores as well as fresh water lakes and ponds.  They are quick and eficient hunters and will attack anything within their territory.  Pelcraydes are 4 feet in diametor and stand about 3 feet tall. Each Pelcrayde claims an area of approximately 50 square yards.  They live in large colonies.  Sometimes entire beach areas are covered with the mud towers of the Pelcrayde.  
These towers are 3 feet high and are very sturdy.  










FUNGULUS
BEAST

STR   44      4         	OFR                       VALUE	
HLT   40      4         	DFR		           Normal 550  P
SPD   93      9	         	DR   0               Red or Orange 
PER   80      8                     	AP                            5,000 P
BER   111    11

POISON GAS    DL 70  PER RND   Within a 30 yard radius of a colony

     Fungulus is a rare plant in the realms and it is much sought after by venomists, alchemists, and brewers.  A tiny amount can bring a large profit because of its potent i toxins.
     The plant's tiny delicate leaves grow in a 1/4 inch patch to 
a height of 1/16 inch during its breif 2 day lifetime.  The plant prefers wet areas and rotting wood to grow on.  It is not uncommon for a colony of Fungulus to cover an entire shipwreck within a matter of days.  
     While eeding on the decaying wood, the Funjulus emits a toxic gas as the plants grow,die and begin to decay.  Not only does the toxic gas from the colony have a highly toxic effect 
in closed areas but anso can be equally dangerous in open
air to any one within 30 yards of the colony.   Fungulas 
varries in color with  green, yellow and brown as the normal colors, although there have been sightings of red and orange specimans.  Because the red and orange plants are the 
rarest of the rare little is known about these varieties and 
they command a very high price on the open market. 

VORBAT
BEAST

STR   46      5         	OFR                       VALUE	
HLT   85      9         	DFR		                  P
SPD   89      9	         	DR    0   
PER   82      8               	AP
INT    15      2                           MP
EVO  29      3                           CP   17
BER   174    17                         ML   3

BITE   OFR          DL 5
WING LANCE  X 2   OFR          DL 28 

INNATE 
SONAR  10
MIDNIGHT MEND  12 HLT PER RND.

     Vorbats are ill tempered resididents of caves, dungons or any dark secluded place.  These are very common in the 
realms and range from 3 to four feet in length.  They are noctournal usually traveling in large groups of 50 or more.  
The Vorbats wings are tipped with long spear like projections.  Vorbats  swoop down on their prey impaling them.










SPITTING TARPA
BEAST

STR   93      9         	OFR                       VALUE	
HLT   93      9         	DFR		                  85 P
SPD   75      8	         	DR    20    
PER   69      7               	AP
BER   79      8                          MP
INT
EVO                                                                    
FIREBALLS X 3            DL 30 @

INNATE 
FIRE BALL 3X DAILY
CAMOUFLAGE   30

     Spitting Tarpa live in  rocky areas prefering gravel soil but
can also be found near deserts and sandy areas as long as there are enough rocks.  Spitting Tarpa burrow into the rocks
feeding on the minerals within the rocks.   They live in small colonies containing 20 to 35 individuals.  Their rounded 
rock shaped shells make them dificult to distinguish from the surrounding terrain.  They lay claim to a small area anywhere from 50 to 100 square yards, depending on the number of individuals in the colony.  They are agressive only when disturbed.

VORBAT
BEAST

STR                   	OFR                       VALUE	
HLT                  	DFR		                  P
SPD   	         	DR       
PER                  	AP
INT                                           MP
EVO                                        CP   
BER                                         ML   



INNATE 




















SPITTING TARPA
BEAST

STR                    	OFR                       VALUE	
HLT                    	DFR		                  85 P
SPD   	         	DR        
PER                                         AP
BER                                         MP
INT                                     
EVO                                                                    

INNATE 


VORBAT
BEAST

STR                   	OFR                       VALUE	
HLT                  	DFR		                  P
SPD   	         	DR       
PER                  	AP
INT                                           MP
EVO                                        CP   
BER                                         ML   



INNATE 




















SPITTING TARPA
BEAST

STR                    	OFR                       VALUE	
HLT                    	DFR		                  85 P
SPD   	         	DR        
PER                                         AP
BER                                         MP
INT                                     
EVO                                                                    

INNATE 


VORBAT
BEAST

STR                   	OFR                       VALUE	
HLT                  	DFR		                  P
SPD   	         	DR       
PER                  	AP
INT                                           MP
EVO                                        CP   
BER                                         ML   



INNATE 




















SPITTING TARPA
BEAST

STR                    	OFR                       VALUE	
HLT                    	DFR		                  85 P
SPD   	         	DR        
PER                                         AP
BER                                         MP
INT                                     
EVO                                                                    

INNATE 


FOREST WEIRD
DARKEN

STR   140  14                         OFR                        VALUE
HLT   74     7                           DFR                           313 P
SPD   70     7                          AP
PER   60     6                           DR  0  
INT    50     5                           MP  
EVO  100   10                         ML  100
BER   120   12                         CST  7
                                                CP  14
CLUB  OFR           DL
FISTS  OFR           DL

INNATE 
INVISIBILITY      LVL  14           CAMOFLODGE    LVL  20
LEAPING           LVL  14            DETECT HIDDEN
SURE STRIKE    LVL  14            (FOREST)           LVL  20
TRACKING        LVL  20

     Forest Wierds are large, long limbed bypedal creatures. They average 20' in height and sometimes reach height's of 
up to 28' feet. They live in forested areas and are extreamly teritorial, not taking kindly to intruder's. They often live in small bands numbering from 3 to 6. Their skin is green and is 
covered  in patterns resembaling foliage. They carry small 
trees  they use as clubs. Their inate ability to use invisability makes them an extreamly difficulty opponet. This ability coupled with their use of Sure Strike and Leaping makes for
 an interesting attack system. When they attack they turn invisable, then utilize sure strike  then procede to rush their victim by using their  Leaping ability to pownce on their 
opponet. 

BITHER
BEAST

STR       	85	9	OFR                       VALUE	
HLT	75	8	DFR		               187 
SPD	98	10	DR  10  
PER	90	9	AP
INT	34	3                      MP    
EVO	63	6                      ML  2
BER	23    2					

BITE  OFR                  DL 15
SHOCK  OFR             DL 20
CONSTRICT OFR       DL 10 PER RND
+5   to defending role if constrict follows a successful bite attack is made on the same victim in the same round.  This number increases by 2 each round the victim is bheld in the coils of the Bithir

INNATE 
     Weight 1105   18 feet long silver serpant.  Thigly agressive and attack without provacation.  They are territorial and while their territory can be as small as an acre or two they will fiercly defend it.  They are an amphibious serpant and able to remain under water for up to 3 hours.  They suffer no movement modifiers when in the water and innately have  20 RNKs of swimming.  They attack by using a series of biting and constricting attacksl  They attempt to bite an jopponent first, getting a good hold then they coil around the victim and begin 
to squeeze it.  This attack should be treated as a Pin and the victim takes damage each round that it is in the coils of the Biethir.       






















RAQUELIN
BEAST

STR  173     17                                OFR                   VALUE                        
HLT   65       7                                  DFR          
SPD   117     12                               AP
PER   68        7                                 DR  
INT    14         1                                MP


INNATE 






















SCREECHER
BEAST

STR                                     OFR                        VALUE
HLT                                      DFR          
SPD                                     AP
PER                                      DR  
INT                                       MP


INNATE 








































RACIAL ATTRIBUTE BONUS
      

RACIAL SENSES AND MODIFIERS
VISION   %        HEARING  %            SMELL  %          
WEIGHT            MOVEMENT                 BULK

GUARDIAN ATTRIBUTE BONUS  

GUARDIAN INNATE ABILITIES
   
CHAMPION ATTRIBUTE BONUS  


CHAMPION INNATE ABILITIES
 
GRAND GUARDIAN ATTRIBUTE BONUS 
 
GRAND GUARDIAN INNATE ABILITIES





THORNBAR
PHARAYAN
DISCIPLINIST, MONK, MARTIAL ARTIST

RACIAL ATTRIBUTE BONUS
      

RACIAL SENSES AND MODIFIERS
VISION   %        HEARING  %            SMELL  %          
WEIGHT            MOVEMENT                 BULK

GUARDIAN ATTRIBUTE BONUS  

GUARDIAN INNATE ABILITIES
   
CHAMPION ATTRIBUTE BONUS  

CHAMPION INNATE ABILITIES
 
GRAND GUARDIAN ATTRIBUTE BONUS 
 
GRAND GUARDIAN INNATE ABILITIES





VORBAT
BEAST

STR                   	OFR                       VALUE	
HLT                  	DFR		                  P
SPD   	         	DR       
PER                  	AP
INT                                           MP
EVO                                        CP   
BER                                         ML   



INNATE 




















SPITTING TARPA
BEAST

STR                    	OFR                       VALUE	
HLT                    	DFR		                  85 P
SPD   	         	DR        
PER                                         AP
BER                                         MP
INT                                     
EVO                                                                    

INNATE 


AQVIS (Keith)
PHARAYAN
     5' tall, wrinkled oldman look, desers sand in color.  Luck and perception.  Shape Changers
     Champion: Grow slick black feather main, wevved feet and hands.
RACIAL ATTRIBUTE BONUS
      

RACIAL SENSES AND MODIFIERS
VISION   %        HEARING  %            SMELL  %          
WEIGHT            MOVEMENT                 BULK

GUARDIAN ATTRIBUTE BONUS  

GUARDIAN INNATE ABILITIES
   
CHAMPION ATTRIBUTE BONUS  

CHAMPION INNATE ABILITIES
 
GRAND GUARDIAN ATTRIBUTE BONUS 
 
GRAND GUARDIAN INNATE ABILITIES





VORBAT
BEAST

STR                   	OFR                       VALUE	
HLT                  	DFR		                  P
SPD   	         	DR       
PER                  	AP
INT                                           MP
EVO                                        CP   
BER                                         ML   



INNATE 




















SPITTING TARPA
BEAST

STR                    	OFR                       VALUE	
HLT                    	DFR		                  85 P
SPD   	         	DR        
PER                                         AP
BER                                         MP
INT                                     
EVO                                                                    

INNATE 


SNOWBOAR
PHARAYAN
SURVIVALIST, RANGER

RACIAL ATTRIBUTE BONUS
      

RACIAL SENSES AND MODIFIERS
VISION   %        HEARING  %            SMELL  %          
WEIGHT            MOVEMENT                 BULK

GUARDIAN ATTRIBUTE BONUS  

GUARDIAN INNATE ABILITIES
   
CHAMPION ATTRIBUTE BONUS  


CHAMPION INNATE ABILITIES
 
GRAND GUARDIAN ATTRIBUTE BONUS 
 
GRAND GUARDIAN INNATE ABILITIES





VORBAT
BEAST

STR                   	OFR                       VALUE	
HLT                  	DFR		                  P
SPD   	         	DR       
PER                  	AP
INT                                           MP
EVO                                        CP   
BER                                         ML   



INNATE 




















SPITTING TARPA
BEAST

STR                    	OFR                       VALUE	
HLT                    	DFR		                  85 P
SPD   	         	DR        
PER                                         AP
BER                                         MP
INT                                     
EVO                                                                    

INNATE 


TRAINING APTITUDES

BATTLE
   
ATHLETIC
       

SURVIVAL
Tracking     

SUBVERSIVE
             
RUNE CRAFT 


ARTISAN 


MAGIC


   
SCHOLASTIC


 
DISCIPLINES

SPELL APTITUDE LIST

HEALTH


UTILITY



OFFENSIVE



DEFENSIVE



VORBAT
BEAST

STR                   	OFR                       VALUE	
HLT                  	DFR		                  P
SPD   	         	DR       
PER                  	AP
INT                                           MP
EVO                                        CP   
BER                                         ML   



INNATE 




















SPITTING TARPA
BEAST

STR                    	OFR                       VALUE	
HLT                    	DFR		                  85 P
SPD   	         	DR        
PER                                         AP
BER                                         MP
INT                                     
EVO                                                                    

INNATE 


TALON DIRK
     This versitile dirk is approximatly 18" long, has a wide thin blade, and looks like any other normal weapon of it's type.  There are, however,  three alternate modes to this dirk, the four buttons on the hilt that activateating three alternate modes of this unique weapon, the fourth button placing the weapon in the off mode.    
 
BUTTON 1 
OFF  ( Normal mode )
     
               A.  LOW ( + ) To Damage
               B.  LOW ( + ) To Hit
               C.  LOW ( + ) To Parry
               D.  LOW ( + ) To Penetration

BUTTON 2 
PROJECTILE  ( Engage wing flanges )
          
               A.  MODERATE ( + ) To Range
               B.  LOW ( + ) To Damage
               C.  HIGH ( + ) To Hit
               D.  RETURN TO SHETH ( 500' RNG. )
                          
BUTTON 3 
PARRY  ( Alters blade array to 3 )

              A.  HIGH ( + ) To Parry
              B.  LOW ( + ) To Hit

BUTTON 4 
STELETTO ( Alter blade array to 2 )
               
              A.  AVERAGE ( + ) To Damage
              B.  AVERAGE ( + ) To Hit
              C.  HIGH ( + ) To Penetration

          
               A.  MODERATE ( + ) To Range
               B.  LOW ( + ) To Damage
               C.  HIGH ( + ) To Hit
               D.  RETURN TO SHETH ( 500' RNG. )
                          
MAGIC TACK
     This small 1/4" seemingly mondaine item has many handy uses.  Mentally connected to it's owner, it is activated by meerely pushing it into a solid object and mentally willing it to perform any of the following tasks within the tack's capapabilities.

CARPET OF TACKS ( 4 X Day for 30 minutes @ )
             
               A.  1" SPIKES
               B.  AREA OF EFFECT - 10 square feet
               C.  WILL NOT HARM ALLIES 
               D.  LOW ( + ) To Damage
               E.  LOW ( + ) To Armor
               F.  LOW ( + ) To Gripping
               G.  MODERATE - Physical maneuvering
               H.  LOW ( + ) To Magical Attempts

ENERGY DRAIN ( 5 X Day for 10 minutes each
                                                  use)

               A.  LOW ( + )  Magic Drain per Round
               B.  LOW ( + ) Health Drain per Round
               C.  LOW ( + ) To any other attribute per 
                                   Round

ALTER SIZE OR SHAPE ( 1 Time a day for the
                                          entire day )
 
               A.  10'  SPIKE WITH HEAVY HEAD
               B.  5' PIKE
               C.  3' Mace
                   
NOTE:  These weapons will have the same 
             properties as any normal weapon of like 
             type.

MAGIC TACK ( Continued )

PHANTOM PERCHES ( 1 x Day 1 Hour Max. )  
     The Magic Tack is also capable of forming 5' tall stools or platforms along any solid surface, and can extend for any length up to 500' in any direction and in any configuration that the holder of the Magic Tack desires. The objects apperar in 3' intervals with a 1 1/2' diameter weight bearing surface at the top of each pedastal.  
   These objects can be created simultaniously with  spikes that can range from 2' to 6' in length, with strong 5" heads.  
     These objects can not be hand held.
     
             A. AVERAGE ( + ) To Explosive Driving 
                                       Force
             B.  EXCESSIVE ( + ) To Holding Capability

BOUNCING BUCKLER 
    This buckler is normal in all respects except when activated by either of the two buttons that are on it.  Although the Buckler has two modes, a defend and bouncing bubble, only one of them can be activated in a day, the unselected mode will not be functional until the following day.

BUTTON # 1  
DEFEND MODE ( 5 X Day for 10 minutes @ )
     In this mode the Buckler will automatically move to block blows very effeectively, however, due to the random nature of the movement the user will be at a disadvantage when attacking.
 
             A.  EXCESSIVE (+)   Blocking blows
             B.  HIGH ( - )  To Hit                                                                   
                 
             BOUNCING BUCKLER ( continued )

BUTTON # 2
BOUNCING BUBBLE ( 1 X Day for 1hr. )
    The bubble will encase the holder of the buckler in a highly protective transparent bubble, however, maneuvering in this uncontrolable and randomly bouncing bubble, will be very difficult.  
             A.  EXCESSIVE ( + ) To Armor
             B.  HIGH ( - )  To Maneauvering

HEALING POTIONS
     Amount of health restored is up to the GM.

ENCHANTED DAGGERS
      These daggers are normal in all respects except when the switch, located on the hilt, is triggered. 

DAGGER # 1    HIGH ( + ) To Damage
DAGGER # 2    HIGH ( + ) To Hit
DAGGER # 3    EXCESSIVE ( + ) Light Produced 
                                                  at will  
                        
SPEED POTION
                 A. HIGH ( + ) To speed in MPH


RING OF EARTH BLOOD ( 3 x Day )
     This ring has an invisible lid on the top of its red jewel crest that can be mentally opened by the wearer.  This allows the ring's berrer to pour a measured amount of blood fluid from a small resoviour in the gem.  When the liquid is poured onto the earth, an elemental will appear to do the bidding of wearer of the ring.   The size and power of the earth elemental will depend upon how much of the fluid is used.

ELEMENTALS  # 1 
1.  Creates 10 Elemental Golums 
2.  1/3 Of the Ring's Contents 
3.  Duration 1 hour 
4.  Ring may be activated 2 more times at this 
     level or once at the elemental # 2 Level. 
               A.  LOW - Strength
               B.  LOW - Damage
               C.  MODERATE - Health
               D.  MODERATE - To Hit
               E.  AVERAGE - Armor
               F.  EXCESSIVE - Speed
             
ELEMENTALS  # 2 
1.  Creates 5 Elemental Golums 
2.  2/3 Of the Ring's Contents 
3.  Duration 1/2  day 
4.  Ring may be activated 2 more times at 
     elemental # 1Level. 
               A.  AVERAGE - Strength
               B.  AVERAGE - Damage
               C.  AVERAGE - Health
               D.  MODERATE - To Hit
               E.  AVERAGE - Armor
               F.  AVERAGE - Speed
                          
ELEMENTALS  # 3
1.  Creates 1 Elemental Golum 
2.  All  of the Ring's Contents 
3.  Duration 1 day 
4.  Ring may not be reactivated 
               A.  EXCESSIVE - Strength
               B.  EXCESSIVE - Damage
               C.  EXCESSIVE - Health
               D.  MODERATE - To Hit
               E.  EXCESSIVE - Armor
               F.  LOW - Speed

           
GHOST HAWK-  This magical item gives a birds eye view of its surrounding to the owner of    the statuette. Trigering the Glyph on the statuette, activates the non-coperal bird and sends it 
to wing, The ghost hawk cannot be damaged in  this state by any means, however, the statuette itself, is quite fragile            a fall of moderate impact, will shatter it rendering it useless. 
The holder      of the statuette can see through the eyes of
 the hawk under the conditions listed below:

 1.  It can be  used 3 times a day for 5 rounds each use.
                        
 2. The range of flight is 300 yards from the holder of the 
statue.
                         
3.  The ghost hawks vision is only good in daylight, it cannot see   through walls nor in the dark or in fog, smoke or other
low visibility situations.
                          
4.  The Item can do nothing but see, no scent or hearing. 
                           
5. Ghost Hawk can phaze through anything for the duration of its summoning and will not be harmed if the duration passes before  the Hawk has cleared the solid object that it was phazing through.

EARRING OF KHAEAR 







MUTATION

HEALING

LIGHTENING BOLT

RAIN

WINDS

DESTRUCTION

DISEASE

TRANSFORMATION

BACKFIRE

BAD LUCK

GOOD LUCK

INSTANT DEATH

LESS HEALTH

MORE HEALTH

CURSE

ROLL TWICE

RAISE STRENGTH

LOWER STRENGTH

LOWER LEVEL

RAISE LEVEL








ENCOUNTERS

EXTRA LIMB (GM's Choice)

EXTRA HEAD (seperate entity) 

BEAK

THIRD EYE  (GM's Placement.

LIQUIFICATION (1 X day)

GAINS 6' IN HEIGHT

SHRINKS 6' IN HEIGHT

LOSE 1 LIMB  (GM's Choice)

HAIR GROWTH  (Requires cutting 1Xday to see)

NO FACE

GM"s Choice (Anything Goes)
LOSE 100 HEALTH PER DAY

HEALS 10

HEALS 20

HEALS 25

HEALS 30

HEALS 40

HEALS ALL HEALTH

HEALS UP TO 100 HEALTH A DAY






RANDOM

MAGIC ITEMS



WEAPONS





WEAPONS LIST

Weapon		          Dmg	AP	Cost	

Bladed Small
Dagger			3	1	9
Dirk			4	1	17
Short Sword		6	2	18

Medium Blade
Tobar			18/9	2/1	60
Infantry Cutlass		11	4	33

			Long Blade		
Calvary Cutlass		12	4	38
Broad Sword		12	4	33
Bastard Sword		13	4	39
Great Sword		15	5	45

Light Blades
Foil			5	1	20
Rapier			10	3	31
Saber			11	3	38

Pole
Staff			5	2	15
Pole Arm		21	7	63
Javelin			11	3	36
Spear			12	4	38
Battle Spear		18	6	54
Trident			15	5	45
War Scythe		20	7	54
Pike			6	2	18
Lance			24	8	72



					






BEASTS AND DARKEN

SNABBIT
BEAST

STR       	         	OFR                       VALUE	
HLT	         	DFR		                P
SPD	         	DR    
PER	         	AP
INT	                                MP    
EVO	                                ML  
BER						


INNATE 

      
	                          	      			

















BUG-A-BOO
BEAST

STR   20     2       	OFR                       VALUE	
HLT   64     6	         	DFR		                P
SPD   65     7	         	DR  6    
PER   66     7	         	AP
INT     28    3	                                  
					
CLAW   OFR          DL

INNATE 
     


GHOUL
BEAST

STR   100    10                      OFR                          VALUE
HLT   150    15                       DFR                            630 P
SPD   90      9                        AP
PER   90      9                         DR  33  
INT     50      5                        MP
EVO   60     6                         ML   6
BER   60      6                         CP   6

CHILL   OFR          DL49

INNATE 
STRIKE  LVL 5
DEFEND LVL 6
HEAL 30 HP PER RND

WEIGHT  800  











AFAUNC
BEAST

STR  150    15         	OFR                       VALUE	
HLT   180    18         	DFR		               1,500 P
SPD   64      6	         	DR   20    
PER   91      9               	AP
INT    27      3	                        MP    

BITE                     OFR          DL  23
BREATH  1          OFR          DL   100
BREATH  2          OFR          DL   200

INNATE 
1650 Neck and Head  @
     The Afaunc is a large aquatic hydra living its entire life in water.  This creature gains heads as it matures.  A mature
adult will have 7 heads.  Each head can attact either as one 
or indepenedently either biting, constricting with its long neck 
or useing its electricaly charged  breath attack.   Each of the heads can use its 
breath attack 3 times a day.



#